Super Mario World FAQ
For the Super Nintendo
Written by William Sigler, Jr. (ssigler@prodigy.net)
c1999
Please do not reproduce this without my permission. Also, please do not change 
ANYTHING! And if you do have my permission to copy this to your website, etc., 
GIVE ME CREDIT! Thank you.

WHAT'S NEW?
Revision 1.01: David Dayton said this code was false, so I deleted it. If you 
have proof that this does work, e-mail me. [If the tens digit of the star 
bonus achieved by breaking the tape at the finish matches both the ones and 
the tens digit of the time remaining on the timer, you will earn a 1-up] 
(2/13/99)
Revision 1.00: Everything! (1/17/99)
CONTENTS
1. Controls
2. Walkthrough
3. Secrets & Cool Stuff
4. Credits

1.                                 CONTROLS
L-Button/R-Button: Scroll View, Control Pad: Move/Duck/Aim, Select: Exit level 
when paused (You must first beat level), Start Button: Pause, Y-Button/X-
Button: Run, A-Button: Spin jump, B-Button: Jump

2.                                 WALKTHROUGH
Go to Yoshi's House if you want to practice. Go to Yoshi's Island 1. Keep 
going right until you eventually reach the exit. There are some exits that 
take you back to where you were. I will not list those.

Go up to the Yellow Switch Palace, and enter. Just hit the switch, grab as 
many coins as possible, then head right, through the pipe, and hit the switch.

Go down, and make your way to Yoshi's Island 2. Enter, and then grab the 
shell, and kill the enemies for an easy 1-up. In one of the boxes, Yoshi is 
inside. Mount him, then keep going forward until you reach the exit.

Go up to Yoshi's Island 3. Go up, and keep using the platforms, and eventually 
you should reach the end.

Go into Yoshi's Island 4. Keep going right until you see a pipe. Go in it, and 
go to the exit.

Now enter Iggy's Castle. Climb onto the fence, and keep going right until you 
get to the door. Enter, then avoid the pits and the crushers, until you make 
it to the next door. To defeat Iggy, keep bouncing on his head when it tilts 
so that he is closest to the lava.

Go up to Donut Plains 1. Just grab a feather, then fly to the platform with 
the key, drop down, then go to the exit. SECOND EXIT: Fly up to the platform, 
and put the key in the hole.

Go to Donut Plains 2. Just keep going forward until you get to the final green 
pipe, and go inside. Then, go to the exit. SECOND EXIT: In the place where 
there are yellow rocks going up and down, and there are two orange pipes, and 
two green ones, enter the second green one. Grab the blue shell, and hit the 
last block to make a vine. Jump onto the blocks, climb up the vine, and put 
the key in the keyhole.

Go to the Green Switch Palace. Just go through the pipe, and hit the switch.

Go to Donut Secret 1. Just swim right, until you reach the exit. SECOND EXIT: 
Hit the Power Switch, and hurry to the right. Grab the coins, and hit the 
block. Then put the key in the keyhole.

Go to Donut Secret House. Go down, avoiding the ghosts, then springboard over 
the ghost, and go through the door. Go left, grab the Power Switch, bring it 
near the floating door, then hit it. Hit the block directly over the door. 
Climb up the vine, and go through the door. Grab the highest block you can 
get, then throw it at the Big Boo. Do this three times to beat him. SECOND 
EXIT: Grab the Power Switch, bring it over and hit it, but this time enter the 
door to the RIGHT of the floating door. Go to the exit.

Go into the pipe next to the house, then go to Donut Secret 2. Keep going 
right until you reach the exit.

Go into the pipe you came in, and go to Donut Ghost House. Enter the door to 
the right, then another. Jump back up and go through the door again. Now, hit 
the box, climb the vines, go through the door, and go to the exit. SECOND 
EXIT: Go get some feathers from Donut Plains 1, then go back to the house. Get 
a running start, and fly up to the left. Then land onto the platform. Jump 
down to the right, and go through the door, then go to the exit.

You now have access to Top Secret Area. Go here to get Yoshi (Or 1-ups if you 
have him already), mushrooms, flowers, and feathers. You can go whenever you 
need to. Go to Donut Plains 3. Just get a feather, and fly right until you 
reach the exit.

Now go to Donut Plains 4. Just fly right until you reach the exit. Go to 
Morton's Castle. Go up the ramp, and into the door. Then, climb up the stairs 
to the left and enter another door. Use the moving platforms and trampolines 
to move upwards, until you reach the door, then enter it. To defeat Morton, 
just bounce on his head three times.

For Star World, the second exit lets you move on. The first will only take you 
back to where you were (Except for Star World 5). I will list the second exit, 
not the first (Except for Star World 5).

Make your way to Star Road under the secret ghost house. Go to Star World 1. 
Spin jump to through the first block barrier, then go all the way to the 
right, spin jump down, and put the key in the keyhole.

Make your way to Star World 2. Grab the star, and feed the Blue Yoshi fish 
until it grows up, then mount it. Eat any fish that get in your way, and make 
your way right until you see a pipe. Swim under it, then put the key into the 
keyhole.

Make your way to Star world 3. Make Yellow Yoshi hatch, then hit the grey 
Power Switch. Push Yoshi into the silver coins Lakitu throws, until he grows 
up. Grab a block, and throw it at Lakitu. Jump into his cloud, fly left, hit 
the box, and put the key into the keyhole to the right.

Then go to Vanilla Dome 1, since you need to beat the Red Switch Palace. Make 
your way right, and go through the pipe. Keep going forward, until you reach 
the exit. SECOND EXIT: Since you need to beat the Red Switch Palace before you 
can do this, I will tell you later in the walkthrough.

Go to Vanilla Dome 2. Keep going forward to get to the exit. SECOND EXIT: When 
the part that has a box and leads up, and has a place to keep going forward, 
go up. Jump on the box, onto the right, then back to the left. Move the Power 
switch as left as possible. Fall down the second hole, not the first. Grab the 
key and put it into the keyhole.

Enter the Red Switch Palace. Kill all the enemies, grab the coins, then hit 
the Power Switch, and grab the coins. Then go into the pipe. Hit the switch.

Go back to Star World 4. Hatch Red Yoshi, then grab a Blue Yoshi to fly to a 
green and red platform. Dismount Yoshi, grab the shell, go down the platform, 
hit the box with the shell, then put the key into the keyhole.

You cannot beat Star World 5 until you beat the Blue Switch Palace, so go to 
Vanilla Ghost House. Go right, and through the door. Do not touch the green 
blobs. Hit the block to make a Power Switch appear. Grab it, and go all the 
way to the right. Grab the coins, then hit the switch, then go through the 
door. Then go to the exit.

Go to Vanilla Dome 3. Keep going until you see a huge orange pipe. Jump right 
next to it and a box will appear for a platform. When you meet some more 
orange pipes, bounce off the pink things. Just keep going forward, and using 
the rafts, and eventually you will reach the exit.

Go to Vanilla Dome 4. Keep bouncing forward, until you reach the exit.

Now, enter Lemmy's Castle. Trick the magician into zapping one of the blocks 
so you can go down, then go forward. Hit the Power switch, then go through the 
door. Go through another to find yourself in another room. Time the movements 
carefully so that you can use the platforms efficiently. Eventually, you will 
get to the door, and then enter it. When fighting Lemmy, there are two 
dummies, and him. Jump on him three times to win. 

Go back to Vanilla Dome 1, I will now tell you the second exit. Just climb up 
the red platform, hit the box to make vines grow, climb the vines, and put the 
key into the keyhole.

Enter the pipe, then go to Vanilla Secret 1. Make your way to the top, and go 
through the pipe. Then, go to the exit. SECOND EXIT: Get a feather, then 
before you jump up, past the turtles, fly to the upper-left corner and go into 
the pipe. Go to the exit.

Go to Vanilla Secret 2, and just fly to the exit with a feather.

Go to Vanilla Secret 3. Just keep jumping from dolphin to dolphin, until you 
come to a pipe. Enter, and go to the exit.

Go to Vanilla Fortress. Make your way through, until you come to the boss 
door. To defeat Reznor, push all four into the lava.

Go to Butter Bridge 1. Make your way across all of the platforms, to the pipe 
at the end. Enter, then go to the exit.

Go to Butter Bridge 2. Grab a feather, then fly to the end.

Enter Ludwig's Castle. Make your way through the castle and the traps, until 
you come to Ludwig. To defeat him, just avoid his attacks, then when he is 
shooting fire, bounce on his head. Repeat three times to win.

Go back, and go through the pipe after Lemmy's Castle. Then go to Cheese 
Bridge Area. Go onto the top platform, and make it to the end of the ride. 
Then, grab onto the ropes to get past the chainsaws. Eventually you will get 
to the exit. SECOND EXIT: Get Yoshi, and make it to the end, but jump UNDER 
the exit, and jump off of Yoshi so that you are on the other side of the exit. 
Grab the 3-up moon, and go to the second exit.

Go to Cookie Mountain. Just fly over to the exit with a feather.

Go to Soda Lake. Go to the end of the lake, go into the pipe, then go to the 
exit.

Now go to the Forest of Illusion 1. Keep going forward until you reach the 
exit. SECOND EXIT: Keep going until you reach the wooden platforms. Get to the 
end of it, drop down, hit the box, grab the balloon, and go left. Avoid the 
turtle, and hover over the platform with the keyhole until the balloon effect 
wears off. Grab the key, and put it in the keyhole.

Go to the Forest of Illusion 2. Keep swimming until you make it to the finish. 
SECOND EXIT: Near the end, there is a wall to the left, with a yellow box, and 
a fish. Get the power-up from the box, get past the fish (You will probably 
get hurt), and then grab the key, and put it in the keyhole.

Go to the Blue Switch Palace. Hit the switches, grab the coins, go through the 
pipe, and hit the switch.

Get a feather, then go to Star World 5. Fly up, and land onto a yellow 
platform. You should get to a gray block. Duck, hold forward, and keep 
jumping, and eventually you should make it through. You should then see 
another. Get a running start, and duck, and eventually you should get through. 
Then just go grab the key, and put it in the keyhole.

Go into the middle Star Road, and go to Gnarly. Make sure you have a feather, 
then go up, and make it down on the other side, then go through the pipe. Now, 
fly to the right to finish the level.

Go to Tubular. Keep going until you cannot anymore. Jump down, bounce off the 
trampoline, hit the box, and grab the balloon. In a couple of other boxes 
along the way, there are more, so you can go further. Eventually, you will 
reach the exit.

Go to Way Cool. Go through all the platforms, or it may be possible to fly 
over to the exit.

Get a Blue Yoshi, then go to Awesome. Just grab a shell, and keep flying until 
you reach the exit.

Go to Groovy. Make your way to the exit. It helps to have Yoshi.

Go to Mondo. Make it to the pipe at the end, go in, and go to the exit. It 
helps to have Yoshi.

Go to Outrageous. Make sure you have a feather, and fly to the exit. This 
level is insanely hard on the ground.

Go to Funky. Make it to the end of the level, and celebrate!

Finally go to the Star Road at the end, and be amazed.

Go to the Forest Ghost House, and go until you see a door. Enter it, then go 
forward, grab the Power Switch, go all the way right, hit the switch, and go 
through the blue door that appears. Go left, and into the first door you see, 
then go to the exit.

Go to the Forest of Illusion 3. Keep going until you reach the exit. SECOND 
EXIT: Go into the last green pipe in the level, grab the key, and put it into 
the keyhole.

Go to Forest of Illusion 4. Keep going until you reach the exit. SECOND EXIT: 
There is a blue hovering pipe a little over halfway in the level. Go a little 
right to lure a jumping turtle. When he gets close, bounce off him to the 
pipe, and go in. Now grab the key and put it in the keyhole.

Go to Forest Secret Area. Just stay on the platforms, until you can go to the 
exit.

Go to the Forest Fortress. Dodge the crushers and spiky wheels, and go through 
the door at the end. To get past the spiky wheels, spin jump on them. Go 
through the door, and beat Reznor the same way you did before: hitting them 
into the lava.

Go to Roy's Castle. Jump onto the block snake, and make it past until you jump 
off. Keep going until you get to the door. To beat Roy, just bounce on his 
head three times.

Go to Chocolate Island 1. Just get a feather and fly to the exit.

Go to Choco-Ghost House. Keep going until you get to the door. Enter it, then 
forward, lure a box-ghost back to the place with a door, Jump on it when it's 
a box, then jump to the door and enter it. Now go to the exit.

Go to Chocolate Island 3. Keep going through the pipes and things until you 
get to the exit. SECOND EXIT: Go really fast, or collect a lot of coins. I'm 
not sure how fast or much, though.

Go to the pipe and to Chocolate Secret. Make your way through the pipes and 
traps, until you reach the exit.

Go back through the pipe, and go to Chocolate Island 3. Keep going until you 
get to a box that makes vines grow. Hit it, then go to the exit. SECOND EXIT: 
Get a feather, go to where the first exit was, but fly underneath it, going 
forward until you reach the exit.

Go to the Chocolate Fortress. Dodge the pointy logs and fireballs, then go 
through the door at the end. Now, dodge the Twomps and mini-Thwomps until you 
get to the door. Enter it, and you will meet Reznor. To defeat it, knock them 
all into the lava.

Go to Chocolate Island 4. Jump on platforms, and make it through the maze, 
then go to the exit.

Go to Chocolate Island 5. Get a feather, and fly to the exit.

Go to Wendy's Castle. Dodge the spikes and spiky wheels, and go through the 
door at the end. Dodge the walls and fireballs, and then go through the door 
at the end. To defeat Wendy, jump on her three times.

Go to the Sunken Ghost Ship. Go into the pipe near the end. In the next room, 
keep going, some ghosts will appear. Make your way past them, and be sure to 
stay still when they are solid. Keep going and eventually you will get to a 
pipe. Go into it, then Grab the star, and keep going down until you see a 
green `?'. Grab it to finish the level.

Go to the Valley of Bowser 1. Get through the maze, and eventually there is a 
bunch of blue blocks blocking a pipe. Trick the football player into charging 
through it, and quickly go into the pipe, and to the exit.

Go to the Valley of Bowser 2. Get through the first part, and enter the pipe 
at the end. Now, get through the maze without being squished, and enter the 
pipe at the end. Now get through without being squished, and go to the exit. 
SECOND EXIT: After you pass the maze, you will dropped down onto a platform 
which tries to crush you. Get past it, but make sure it's still on the screen. 
Now, jump onto the part sticking out, and jump onto the ceiling to the left. 
Keep going, then drop down, grab the key, and put it in the keyhole.

Go to the Valley Fortress. Get past the spiked poles, and go through the door 
at the end. To defeat Reznor, push him into the lava.

Go to the Valley Ghost House. Go right, and enter the door. Hit the Power 
Switch, then go right, and enter the third door. Then go to the exit. SECOND 
EXIT: (Be small Mario for this one) Hit the Power Switch, and go right, and 
enter the right-most door. Grab the next Power Switch, run over to the next 
room, hit the block to make a coin snake, and hit the Power Switch to make it 
a block snake. Jump onto the block snake and maneuver it with your movements 
to the room in the upper-right corner. Grab the key and put it in the keyhole.

Go to Valley of Bowser 3. Just keep jumping from platform to platform until 
you reach the exit.

Go to Valley of Bowser 4. Keep going until you reach the exit. SECOND EXIT: 
Near the end, there is a key trapped in rocks. Use Yoshi's tongue to get it, 
then put the key in the keyhole.

Go to Larry's Castle. Follow the block snake to the door, then enter it. To 
beat Larry, when he is nearest to the lava, jump on him. When he falls into 
the lava, you win.

Go to the Back Door (It's easier than the front one). Just go forward and 
enter the door. You will now face Bowser. He first shoots out Mecha-Koopas. 
Jump on them and throw them up in the air so it hits his head. After a couple 
of hits, Bowser will drop some fire, and Princess will throw you a mushroom. 
He will now drop bowling balls at you. Dodge them. Then he will throw out more 
Mecha-Koopas at you. Bounce on their head, then throw them at Bowser's head. 
Again, after a few hits, Bowser will drop some more fire, and Princess will 
throw you another mushroom. Now Bowser will try to crush you under him. After 
a while, he will send out more Mecha-Koopas. Jump on them and throw them at 
Bowser's head. After a couple of hits, you shall finally beat him.

CONGRATULATIONS! YOU HAVE SAVED DINOSAUR LAND FROM BOSWER AND HIS MINIONS!


3.                           SECRETS & COOL STUFF
-If you've beaten the level, pause the game and hit select to exit it.
-If you swallow 10 red berries with Yoshi, an egg will hatch, revealing a 
mushroom.
-If you swallow 2 pink berries with Yoshi, an egg will hatch, revealing a 
cloud that throws out coins. I think if you grab all of them, he throws a 1-
up.
-If you swallow 3 green berries with Yoshi, you will get an extra 20 seconds 
to finish the level.
-If Yoshi spits out a shell that is spit out as a regular shell, you can re-
use it.
-If you don't have enough room to fly, run, and keep changing directions, and 
eventually you will be able to. However, there are some exceptions (Like the 
beginning of Tubular).
-After stomping on a Power Switch, quickly get Yoshi to grab it, and then spit 
it out. It will now be reusable.
-Mario is invincible to harm while riding Yoshi.
-You can carry two items at once, by stacking one on top of the other, than 
grabbing the lower one.
-To reenter castles after you have defeated them, press the L-Button and the 
R-Button at the same time.
-Hit Morton, Ludwig, or Roy 12 times with fireballs, and you will win.
-Carry something to the exit and hit the tape, then it will transform into 
something. If what is in the reserve box is what you are, it'll be a 1-up, if 
it isn't it will make it so it is. Small Mario counts as a Big Mario this way.
-In Butter Bridge 1, you can keep jumping to let the mushrooms rise a little, 
instead of continually sinking while standing on them.

-Level 1-up Tricks-
-Yoshi's Island 2: Go to the block that gives you Yoshi, while you are on 
Yoshi, and grab the 1-up, then repeat. Also, at the beginning, grab the shell 
and hit the turtles to gain another 1-up.

-Not only can you grab mushrooms, fire flowers, and feathers at the Top Secret 
Area, but if you have Yoshi, you can grab 1-ups too.

-Vanilla Secret 3: You can get 40-50 lives, a power-up, and Yoshi all at once. 
Go to the midway tape, break it and exit the level. Reenter it, then go right 
until you come to a pipe. In a music box above the pipe is a power-up. 
Continue right, avoiding enemies, over the chasm, and to the row of blocks 
above a field of spiked turtles. Hit the bottom of the second block in that 
row. It is a Power Switch. Grab it, and take it with you. Return back to your 
left, over the chasm, past the pipe, and the midway tape. Continue until you 
are between 2 pipes on the same screen. Set the Power Switch down and jump on 
it, jump over the chasm to the left, and run as far and as fast as you can. 
Each enemy has turned into a coin. Grab as many as you can for a lot of lives. 
It will run out around the time you get to the block that has Yoshi. Get 
Yoshi, and exit the level, but not before it finishes counting your lives.

-Vanilla Secret Fortress: Just before facing Reznor, keep stomping on the Bony 
Beetles. Eventually, you will start earning lives. But, you must never touch 
the ground, so just swim to stay above.

-Butter Bridge 2: There is a pipe with a small log platform on both sides 
about two-thirds through the level. If you have a cape, get on the right log 
platform trapping the koopa between you and the green pipe. Now, you can use 
the cape spin trick to continuously knock the koopa shell against the pipe and 
collect unlimited 1-ups until the clock runs out.

-Forest of Illusion 1: Go break the midway tape, and exit the level. Reenter 
the level, then run to the right and you'll find a block that alternates 
between the different power-ups. Hit the block when it's a feather and you 
will grab the Super Star. Now run to the right and hit every enemy on the way. 
Soon you will be earning 1-ups and 2-ups. You should be able to get around 15 
extra lives before the star runs out.

-Forest of Illusion 4: Where there is Lakitu "fishing" with a 1-up mushroom, 
ignore him. Get a shell, and run to the first pipe. There is an enemy which 
throws more enemies at you. There is a depression in front of the pipe. Kick 
the shell into the depression, and it will start to bounce back and forth. 
Every time the enemy throws the monsters into the depression, the shell will 
kill it. Eventually, you will start to earn 1-ups. Now you can take the 
mushroom from Lakitu. He also will now throw more enemies into the depression. 
It is possible to get around 40-70 extra lives.

-Chocolate Island 1: There is a 3-up Moon just beyond the midway tape, but to 
get it you must carry the springboard which is left of the midway tape. Carry 
the springboard to the level left of the big crescent-shaped section. If you 
jump as high as possible and then go right while in the air, you can land on a 
set of clouds where the moon is.

-Chocolate Island 4. You must have a cape. Get the first Power Switch and go 
down the gray tube. Once in the tube, grab the second Power Switch and jump 
off the edge. Hug the right wall until you see the seventh opening in the wall 
that is filled with 1-up mushrooms. Float into it and grab them. When you come 
out of the tube, go back to the left and repeat as many times as needed.

-Sunken Ghost Ship: Just before you enter the pipe to go to the second area of 
the ship, go to the left and up. There will be two bullet things that will 
keep shooting and they will hit your feet. Eventually, you will get 1-ups.

-Groovy: Go until you get to the platform that has 5 coins and a `?' box. You 
must carry the Power Switch with you to this point. Hit the Power Switch, and 
grab the star from the `?' box. Then jump up and down to touch all the enemies 
that are flying back and forth. When the Power Switch's effect ends, run to 
the left and kill everyone. You can get about 17-20 lives this way.



4.                                   CREDITS
William Sigler, Jr. (ssigler@prodigy.net) I made the FAQ!
John A. Eccles (johne@alpha.acast.nova.edu) I used a lot of stuff from his FAQ
David Dayton (daviddayton@bigfoot.com) Told me one of the codes was false.

If you have something for my FAQ, or some questions, send them in! If I don't 
have it, you will get credit in my FAQ!
