Lufia Hints!

100 years ago, 4 evil beings came down to earth calling 
themselves, the Sinistrals. The inhabited an island floating in 
the sky which the people called Doom island. The Sinistrals took 
over the world causing death and destruction wherever they went. 
The people called upon their most experienced and heroic 
fighters, Maxim, Selan, Artea, and Guy to defeat the Sinistrals. 
The battle between Maxim, Selan, Artea, Guy and Sinistrals 
became to be known as the Battle of Doom island. Maxim, Selan, 
Artea, and Guy defeat the Sinistrals but Selan is badly hurt 
from the fight and cannot warp back to earth with Maxim, Artea, 
and Guy. Maxim cannot leave his love to die on Doom island so he 
stays behind with her. Both perish when Doom island crashes into 
the sea. 100 years later, the Sinistrals return and it is up to 
you, Lufia, Aguro, and Jerin to defeat the Sinistrals just as 
your ancestor, Maxim, had done before. 

Q: How do I rescue the King from Sheran castle?
A: After you check out Sheran, go back to Alekia and report to 
the king and commander of the Alekian army. Then go to Alekian 
Inn and speak to Lufia. Lufia is still mad at you for leaving 
her but she soon comes to her senses. Leave Alekia to go back to 
Sheran. Lufia will follow you and join your party. Then, as you 
are going through the cave to go to Sheran, you will find Danil, 
who will give you the key to Sheran castle. You then will be 
able to unlocked the locked doors. In one locked room, there is 
a switch which will open a trapdoor to the dungeon. You will 
find this trapdoor by going into one of the rooms at the top 
left or right corners of the castle. Go all the way down and you 
will meet the King and the other prisoners. 

Q: Where do I find the Maberia?
A: The Maberia can be found near the Exit of the North Cave by 
Treck. The ship is guarded by three Goblins. These Goblins are 
very tough so I would recommnd building your parties levels up 
to 9. After you defeat the Goblins, you will sail the Maberia 
back to Treck. 

Q: I can't find Aguro after he leaves us in Lorbenia
A: Go to the top store of the big shop in Lorbenia. A young man 
will steal Lufia's money and run away. After catching this young 
man, go to the Inn and talk to the Inn keeper. Stay the night 
and in the morning, Aguro will find you. 

Q: How do I defeat the Apprentice?
A: The Apprentice is very hard to beat mostly because you fight 
him one on one with Hero. Be sure to use the 2 Mid Arrows found 
on the top floor of the Tower that the Apprentice is in. These 
together will do about 100 points of damage. Also equip the Hero 
with the Sonic Ring to Increase his Agility. Cast the Great 
Potion to add more HP to the Hero's Max and Power Potion to 
Increase the Hero's strength. Whenever you are hurt, be sure to 
heal yourself quickly because the Apprentice can easily do 30 
points of damage with his Jolt spell. 

Q: I can't find Reyna, the little girl that ran away to the 
ghost cave!
A: There is one room in the cave where on the left and right 
sides are land bridges. And below the bridges are treasure 
chests. When you try to cross the land bridges, a fall through a 
hole. Instead, go in between the land bridges (Above the 
treasure chests) and walk across. There is an invisible bridge 
which you cross. 

Q: How do I defeat the Phantom in the Ghost Cave?
A: The Phantom is quite tough. I would recommend using Lufia's 
Drain spell to lower his defensive power. Keep casting this on 
the Phantom. Then make sure you find the Ghost Ring(found in 
Ghost Cave). If the Hero or Aguro is equiped with the ghost 
ring, fight the Phantom with the person wearing the Ghost Ring. 
Use the one who is not wearing the Ghost ring to use potions to 
heal the wounded. If everyone has enough HP, then fight with the 
person not wearing the ghost ring. Just repeat this and you 
should have no problem defeating the Phantom. 

Q: Where are the three Gems I need for the three towers?
A: The Blue Gem is in the Red tower. The green Gem is in the 
Blue tower. And in the Green tower you will find a broken Gem. 
You will need to find a new one. Go back to the Medan mines, and 
the old man at the back of the cave will give you the real Hope 
Ruby. The order you should place the Gems is: Blue Gem in the 
Blue tower, Green Gem in the Green tower, and lastly, place the 
Red Gem in the Red tower. In that order. 

Q: How do I cross the Cave near Ranqs?
A: When you try to leave the cave near Ranqs, you will have 
difficulty proceeding. Go to a little cave east of Ranqs and you 
will find an old man who has most of the directions to exit the 
cave. They are: Up1, Right 2, Up 1, Right2, Up 4, Left 3, Down 
1, Left 2, Down 1, Left 2, Up 2, Right 1, Up 1, Right 2, Then 
all the way up. You need to start in the doorway of this 
mysterious room. 

Q: How do I get to Arus?
A: The bridge to Arus is collasped so you will need to get 
someone to fix it. A repair man at Odel castle says he will 
repair the bridge with his friend at Lyden. Get him. Then he 
tells you to check out the bridge. Go left from Odel castle. You 
will come to a lake. Go under the lake and follow it to a 
bridge. Cross the bridge to a cave. In the cave is the bridge. 
Go back to Odel castle and get the carpenters. They then tell 
tell you to stand on a ledge and watch them work. You get to the 
ledge by going into one of the three caves entrances. These are 
called the West caves. Just work your way left through the cave 
and you will get to the ledge. 

Q: Where do I find Alumina?
A: You will find 1 piece at the cave east of Linze. You will 
then find 5 pieces when you search the Three Island caves. The 
final piece is owned by the king of Herat. He will give it to 
you if you find some new food. To do this you need the Purple 
Newt. It can be found at a cave east of Herat. To get to this 
cave, go straight down from Aisen island. You will hit desert 
like land. Go all the way down then east across a bridge. Then 
North across another bridge. The cave entrance is here. Search 
the cave for the purple newt. Then go to Lyden. At one of the 
backeries is a basement. In the basement is the Wizard of taste. 
Give him the newt and he will give you the Magic taste formula. 
Go to the chef in Herat castle and give him the Magic Taste. He 
will serve the king and the king will reward you by giving you 
his Jewel collection, the Alumina is in this Jewel collection. 

Q: What order do I step on the switches in Aisen Tower?
A: After all possible combinations, the last one worked so I 
don't know if you have to go through all of the combinations to 
open the door or not. The combination I got was Upper Left, 
Lower Right, Lower Left, Upper Right. 

Q: Where is the Dual Blade?
A: The Dual Blade fell into the sea with Doom Island. To go 
below the surface into Doom Island, enter one of the Whirl Pool 
like circles. Go through the cave until you reach Doom Island 
fortress. The Dual Blade is here. 

Q: How do I get Power Oil?
A: The Power Oil is being guarded by the Oil dragon in Oil cave. 
To get to Oil cave, enter one of the Whirlpools (eddys) and exit 
through the other Eddy. You will then find the entrance to Oil 
cave. Kill the dragon and you will get the Power Oil. 

Q: Which switch do I step on to get to the Top of Gasdar Tower?
A: The middle switch should do it. 

Q: Where do I find the Dragon Eggs?
A: Here are three sets of eight Dragon Egg locations:
First eight dragon eggs:
? Old Cave, 2nd floor
? Ghost Cave
? Red Tower
? Cave west of Odel
? Grief Tower
? Linze
? Gayas Cave
? Ullip Island Cave

Second set of eight dragon eggs:
? Alekia Castle
? Belgen
? Cave west of Linze
? Cave southwest of Belgen
? Elba Island Cave
? Underwater near Soshette
? Oil Cave
? Northwest Tower

Third set of eight dragon eggs:
? East Cave (east from Trek)
? Sheran Castle
? Lyden
? Old Cave, 7th Floor
? East of Herat Cave
? North Cave
? Southwest Cave
? Glasden Tower

I hope I have answered all of your questions. I know even with 
all of these hints, some of you still may be stuck so feel free 
to E-mail here at cobes@bigfoot.com I will hopefully be able to 
answer your question(s).
