Written by Beenie...owner of Lufia's Garden, where the Priphea bloom year round! 
Go visit Lufia's Garden at 
http://www.fortunecity.com/victorian/hurst/396/lufia_index.htm

A complete Lufia I Walkthrough!

Alekia 

The adventure begins with you, the hero, going for your daily practice with the 
knights. When no one shows up, practice is canceled. Talk to all the villagers 
and search for items. With that done, go and find Lufia admiring the budding 
Priphea. After some conversation, follow her back to the inn where she prepares 
cinamon tea and pie. You overhear some travelers discussing the rumors of a 
massive monster attack against the kingdom of Sheran to the north. Being the 
heroic guy that you are, you run off to inform the commander leaving an agry 
Lufia behind. You'll find the comander in a back room of the castle. He refuses 
to send troops until you verify that the rumors are true. When you check back at 
the inn, Roman, the innkeeper, tells you that Lufia had a fit and left. There's 
nothing you can do about her now so continue with your quest. As you head north 
to the cave leading to Sheran, be sure to stop at the village of Chatam. 

Chatam 

Many of the citizens of Chatam know about Sheran but no one wants to go and see 
for themselves. A few of the people are worried about Lilah, a villager who is a 
maid at Sheran Castle. Her brother, Danil, has gone to look for her. As soon as 
you're ready, head north to the caves. 

The Caves 

You may want to bring along some antidotes to the caves to cure any poisonous 
spider bites you may recieve. The cave on the right contains items and a box of 
gold. The cave on the left will take you to Sheran. 

Sheran 

You arive to find the town in ruins. Everyone who is still conscious warns you 
of danger and tells you to go back to Alekia for help. First check out the 
castle. Some of the doors are locked. You're going to need a key to investigate 
further. For right now, return to Alekia and inform the comander. 

Alekia 

Before going to the castle, stop at the inn and talk to Roman. He tells you that 
Lufia has returned and is holed up in her room. She refuses to talk to you right 
now (still mad about the silly pie). With that done, go to the castle and inform 
the comander. He tells you that it will be some time before he can send anyone 
to Sheran so go back there on your own. As you leave the village, Lufia follows 
you and insists on going with you. After some debate you agree and head to the 
cave leading to Sheran. 

The Sheran Cave 

Inside the cave you run into Danil. He asks you to go and help his sister Lilah 
which, being the warm and fuzzy person you are, you would have done anyway. 
Before he returns to Chatam, he gives you a key that Lilah used at the castle. 
Now you can get into those locked rooms. 

Sheran Castle 

Ignore the town and head straight for the castle. Go to the thrown room and 
unlock the locked doors. Lower the switch in one of them. This opens the 
stairway to the dungeon (you may have seen the light colored tile in the lowest 
level of the castle). Make your way to the dungeon where you will find the king 
of Sheran and Lilah imprisoned in a cell. Help them out of the castle. Once 
outside you are attacked by monsters. After sending Lufia back to Alekia with 
your group of political refugees, you are foolish enough to challenge the leader 
of the monsters, who identifies himself as Gades, the Sinistrel of Destruction, 
and loose miserably. Just then, Lufia reappears and, for some reason, the sight 
of her causes Gades to withdraw. Lufia tells you that the others are safe and 
sound in Alekia Castle. And, once again, you head back there. 

Alekia 

Don't worry. This is the last time you have to hike back here. Go and talk to 
Roman. There will be a bit of dialogue and then you are free to go to the 
castle. Talk to everyone there and pick up Lilah from the guest room. When 
you've said your goodbyes, take her back to Chatam. 

Chatam 

Lilah goes running off to her brother and they have a touching reunion. Before 
you go make sure that you talk to the old man in the gardens. As a reward for 
helping Lilah and Danil he gives you a little present. Now you can leave. 

Sheran 

The town has been fixed up a bit. Be sure to save your game before you continue 
any further. Now head for the town of Treck. 

Treck 

Once in Treck, look in the shops for new armor and items, then locate the elder. 
He will tell his neice to take you to see "the one". Go east and through a cave 
to a small hut. There you will meet Guy, the leagendary fighter from Maxim's 
party. He seems to recognize Lufia but dies before he can give you any really 
important info. He does manage to tell you to locate Artea, the elf who fought 
at Doom Island. Before you leave Guy's home, look at the gravestone in the field 
of flowers. You will pick up a useful weapon for the hero. With that settled, go 
back to Treck. Now you can gain the assistance of Aguro, the swordsman. Follow 
the instructions given and head north in search of the missing ship. When you 
find it, you'll have to fight some formidable foes. Use Lufia's magic and always 
keep Aguro attacking. Once you have the ship, take it to Lorbenia. 

Lorbenia 

Upon entering Lorbenia, Aguro will leave temporarily. Take the opportunity to 
visit the shops. Outside of the big store, look around the signs for some items. 
Inside, you'll be robbed by Lou the thief. The hero chases him and gets back the 
stolen goods. Go to the inn and enjoy a good night's rest. Now with Aguro again 
in your party, head for Lorbenia. 

Grenoble 

Once in town, upgrade your armor yet again. Snoop around and pick up a few items 
(there's no shame in stealing). Now go to the spring basement. You must pay to 
get in but it's worth the trouble. Inside is an old man who can help you find 
Artea, but only if you find him the Fairy Kiss. Get a task from the man behind 
the desk. Go to the old cave and hunt for your booty. Then return and give the 
Fairy Kiss to the old man. The Fairy Kiss is a little tricky to get. Only women 
may fetch it so Lufia goes it alone for a minute. Just hope she doesn't get 
waxed. Now you're ready to head for the Tower. A friend of Artea's is on the top 
floor. He'll tell you how and where to find the elusive elf, but only if the 
hero can beat him in a one-on-one battle. Once he's been defeated, listen 
carefully to what he tells you and make for the town of Kirof to the south. 
Return to the caves often to pick up advanced armor and weapons. And no matter 
how tempting, DO NOT equip the Luck Blade or the Broad Rod. They're cursed. 

Kirof and Medan 

Snoop around and collect a few items in the village. When you go to one of the 
shops, you will run into Mark and Reyna. Mark plans to ask the king to lend him 
the "Hope Ruby" to cure Reyna. Follow him to Medan. Walk around and talk to 
everyone. You can make a wish on the "Hope Ruby" inside the castle for a price 
but it's a waste of time and meager sums of money. Find your way to the basement 
and listen to the princess' coversation. With that done, leave the castle. You 
will run into Mark again who has stolen the "Hope Ruby". Chase him back to Kirof 
and find that Reyna has dissapeared. She has gone to the Ghost Cave. Mark tags 
along but doesn't help in any way. Be sure to search the entire cave thoroughly. 
It's a pain but many usefull items can be found. This is also a great place to 
level build. Go to the room with the magic and health tiles. Walk back and forth 
around them to get into battles and then heal up afterwards. The way to the 
ghost is by way of an invisible bridge (see the picture in the booklet). Many 
people have been asking me how to get to the invisible bridge, so in response 
I've made a series of hand drawn diagrams that show the quickest route there. 
Once there, equip Aguro with the ghost ring and let him pound away at the 
phantom. After you beat the ghost, go to Medan. After a short scene, the 
princess tells you that you can take the passage across the mountains now. 

Belgen, Dais, and the North Tower 

Upon reaching Belgen, you learn that the town is plagued with monster attacks. 
In an attempt to remedy the situation, they have offered Jerin, a half elf/half 
human, as a ransom. You will find Jerin on the Dais to the west but you need a 
key to get there. A young woman in the village will tell you where to get the 
key. Her brother has it. You will find him in a separate cave near the one that 
leads to Jerin. Once you get the key, go through the cave with the locked door 
and go to the Dais. Once there, a monster swoops down as you leave the screen 
and carries Jerin off to the North Tower. You can save thanks to the cleric in 
the corner and heal your MP and HP from the pots on either side of the screen. 
The North Tower is rather tricky. When you get to the top floor don't step on 
the warp pad in the far back. It takes you back to the entrance. Defeat the bad 
guy and save Jerin. Jerin will join your party later at a small hut in the 
forest. She will lead you through a maze of trees and to a series of islands and 
towers. 

Jenoba, Ruan and the Three Towers 

To open the way to Elfrea, you will need to place three gems in the 
corresponding towers. You will find one gem in each of the towers. The blue 
tower holds the green gem, the green tower the red gem, and the red tower has 
the blue gem (found after defeating the ghost in the basement where there was a 
toxic marsh) However, the red one is broken. You will need to get a replacement 
from the old man in the Medan mines. To do this you must first defeat the ghost 
at the top of the red tower. Next, go to Ruan and talk to the woman in the 
jewelry shop. She tells you that rubies are really red saphires and they used to 
be mined in Medan. NOW you can go to the Medan mines and get the real Hope Ruby 
from the old man. In the red tower is a powerful boss who has imprissoned the 
water faerie. Equip the ghost ring again and fight him. Once he's defeated, you 
will meet the water faerie for the first time whithout dying (she appears when 
you die on the black screen). The water in Ruan will normalize. Now place the 
stones in the towers in the proper order. You will be whisked away to Elfrea. 

Elfrea, and Ranqs 

Artea will not be able to join your fight. He was blinded after the battle of 
Doom Island. He will tell you to look up Proffesor Shaia. Take the warp pad in 
the house and head for Ranqs. In Ranqs you may notice that all the men are gone. 
They are working on a tunnel to Odel. The tunnel is enchanted and you will need 
to move in a specific sequence to procede. For those of you without the patience 
to figure it out, the answer is up 1, right 2, up 1, right 2, up 4, left 3, down 
1, left 2, down 1, left 2, up 2, left 1, up 1, right 2, up 1. Tadaah! You're 
through! Odel is to the southwest. 

Odel and Lyden 

Talk to the old men in the Spring Basement. They'll tell you about Arus, a 
village of powerful magicians. However, the bridge that leads there is out. You 
must ask Pyron the architect for help. In the basement of the castle is Shaia 
Lab 2. The staff tells you that the proffesor has just made a ship that can 
travel underwater - just the thing to get to Dual Blade! The lab contains 3 warp 
pads: one to Shaia Lab 1, one to a level in the cave, and one to the plains. 
You'll find Pyron in the castle shmoozing with the royalty. He agrees to fix the 
bridge but needs you to fetch one of his workers from Lyden. Lyden is to the 
southeast. Pyron's friend is in the restaurant. Take the time to look around. 
Seems that the "Wizard of Taste" lives here but is out searching for new 
ingredients, one of which is a purple newt - keep that in mind. On returning to 
Odel, Pyron asks you to go and check the condition of the bridge while he 
prepares the equipment. The caves are crawling with monsters including mimicks - 
good place to level build. There are 4 caves. Three of them are right next to 
one another. The last cave is to the w est of the first three. The bridge is in 
that cave (cave 1). After seeing it, fetch Pyron from the castle and meet him 
back at the bridge. Pyron asks you to watch while he works. Go to cave 3 (the 
middle one of the grouping of 3) and take the first path heading to the bottom 
of the screen. When you reach the cliff watch Pyron work. As soon as the bridge 
is fixed, the builders hightail it back to Odel. Now cross the bridge and head 
for Arus. 

Arus, the Tower of Grief, and Platina (Shaia Lab 1) 

Once again, you've just missed the proffesor. He's now in the Tower of Grief 
visiting the elder. After Lufia romps in the flowers head west to the tower. 
When you reach the top of the tower, the elder draws out some of Lufia's power, 
increasing her ma ximum MP by 10. Once again the elusive professor has gotten 
away. He has gone back to Shaia Lab 1. At the lab you finally meet the 
proffesor. After you take the Falcon out for a spin, he asks you to meet him in 
Carbis to the west. 

Carbis, Bakku and the Tower of Light 

Shaia asks you t o find his assistant Cooper. Go to Bakku. He is visiting the 
cleric. In Bakku, you learn that Cooper has gone to the Old Cave. He's on the 
5th floor. When you return Cooper to the professor, they tell you to find 7 
pieces of alumina. You must go to Linze to find their friend who is an expert 
miner of alumina. Linze is past the Tower of Light to the north of Bakku. At the 
top of the Tower of Light, you must fight a servant of Amon for the key. The 
guardian only uses magic so use protect and boost every chance you get. Once he 
is defeated, unlock the door on the first floor to get to Linze. 

Linze and Marse 

Brant is in the caves searching for alumina. Take the stairs to the caverns and 
look for him. In the cave, raising or lowering the switch will change where the 
transporter will take you. Be sure to get the alumina. When you reach the 
bottom, instead of finding Brant, you find Clack. Brant is really in Marse. 
marse is to the north. You can reach it by boat or through a cave. In marse, 
take the cruise to see exactly where everything is. Search the 3 caves to find 
Brant and a total of 5 pieces of alumina. Ther is one on Elba island (blue), one 
on Loire (green), and 2 on Ulupp (red). If you end up with 6 pieces of alumina, 
don't worry. King Herat in the kingdom to the west has some. You can only get 
there by ship. 

Herat 

The king will give you his jewels for some good food. Visit the Wizard of Taste 
in Lyden. He tells you to fetch a purple newt from the cave east of Herat. You 
need to go around the mountains to the west and work your way there. You should 
have 8 dragon eggs by now. Take them to the shrine and get a wish. Inside the 
cave you'll find 2 alleys. One has a door leading to a switch and the one next 
to it is a dead end...or is it?! There is an invisible door at the end of it 
that will lead you to the engage ring (While you wear it, all prices will be 
half what merchants normally charge you). After you get the newt, take it to 
Linze in exchange for the "magic flavor". With the king happy, you can get the 
remaining alumina from his valt in the basement. 

Carbis, and Aisen Island 

Take the Alumina to Shaia. You find out that he has gone to Aisen Island, in 
search of his son Lou. Go to Aisen Island and you will find the Professor in one 
of the dungeon cells. He then tells you to save Lou, because the pirates have 
captured him. You come to a place with 4 switches. Here is the order that they 
are in. 

1 # # 4 

3 # # 2 

If you get it wrong, you'll have to fight four pirates and try again. I think 
this's right, I'm not quite certain. After that, be sure to get your stuff up, 
since you'll have to fight two pirates to save Lou and Raile. After you save 
Raile, you and your party (along with Lou and Raile) go out to Raile's boat, 
where Raile tells you to go back to Lab 3. 

 Shaia Lab 3 

You give Raile and Cooper the 7 pieces of Alumina and they fix Falcon so that it 
can travel underwater. 

Soshette 

You find out that the water current is changing a lot. There are eddies here. 
Use them to go to Doom Island and get the Dual Blade. Be sure to rest up and get 
new items. 

Doom Island 

When you get in the Sinistral's fortress, you walk up the stairs and find Dual 
Blade. Then 4 statues will pop up and Aguro walks over to the statue of Erim, 
telling you to come here. Here you also find out that Daos is revived and how 
the Sinistrals have revived. (Pay close attention. The news is very interesting 
here.) 

Soshette 

Your party will warp off of Doom Island and go to Soshette because you claim to 
be worried about Lufia. You will then be at an inn and you'll rest there for the 
night. The next morning, Lufia will wake up and hear you and Aguro talking about 
the recent event that just occurred on Doom Island. (Another place you'll want 
to pay attention to, for it gives you an idea of how bad the situation looks 
from here. There is also lots of dialog.) After she hears them talking, Lufia 
will slip back into the room where she and Jerin are staying in. The other two 
will come in and there's a little more talking, but it should stop after 2 or 3 
minutes. 

Shaia Lab 4 

Recalling what Raile said about Falcon being able to fly, you go to Lab 4. Go 
south. Raile says that in order for Falcon to fly, they need Power Oil. He then 
asks you to go to Epro and buy the Power Oil. 

Epro 

When you arrive at Epro, you discover that there's no Power Oil there. The man 
at the merchant's shop tells you to go north and find a man named Hedge. You 
leave the village and find Hedge, who is not having any luck in getting into the 
Oil Cave since a landslide has closed off the entrance to the cave. Hedge gives 
you the Oil Key so you can find Power Oil. Go to the eddies that also surround 
Epro and you'll find the way into the Oil Cave. 

Lab 4 

Go back here with the Power Oil. Get you weapons and supplies up first. Also, 
buy a Zircon Sword for the Hero. (Trust me on this one and just buy one for him 
or else you'll end up having to spend a lot of money at Forfeit Island later 
when you need a sword.) Go into Shaia Lab 4. Talk to Raile and he, Cooper, 
Louise and another Lab assistant will fix Falcon so that it can fly. You and 
your party begin to say your farewells to Raile when someone rushes in, 
exclaiming that Doom Island is above Glasdar Tower. Then you sail out of Lab 4. 
Fly to Glasdar Tower. There will be a cave somewhere around the mountains. You 
won't be able to land on Galsdar Tower. Land Falcon near the cave and go into 
the cave, where you will find a key to get into the tower. 

Glasdar Tower 

This tower is the last tower you'll have to go into for the rest of the game. 
You'll have to fight a lot of monsters in order to get to the top of the tower. 
When you reach the top, you'll have to fight Nazeby, an agent of Daos. Before 
you fight him though, equip Lufia with Flash Ring so her Thunder (if you're up 
level 41 +) will get a lot out of him. After your fight, Nazeby unleashes his 
energy on Lufia and she knocks everyone but herself unconscious. A minute later, 
Daos's voice is heard, and he makes Lufia remember her past by his little gamble 
with Dual Blade. He then tells her to bring Dual Blade up to him. At first she 
fights his power, but is eventually overtaken and takes Dual Blade from her 
childhood sweetheart. (This's why you need the Zircon Sword.) She then 
disappears and her companions wake up, seeing that she and Dual Blade are gone 
and Doom Island moving to the east. *There is a shot of Lufia up on Doom Island 
with the other three Sinistrals, but you can't do anything here except pay 
attention to what they say and do. 

Doom Island 

Doom Island has landed north of the village of Arus. Go up to Doom Island into 
the shrine. Talk to the man there and he'll get your stuff up. Use all your 
Power, Spell, Speed, Mind and Great Potions on the people who need it the most. 
Then save so that you won't have to do all that again. Go into Doom Island and 
go up. Then in the next room, go up again. The next room you have to go east. 
Then . . . well . . . I'm sure you'll figure that out. When you get to the room 
after you cross the crystal bridge, you'll find the Dual Blade, which the 
Sinistrals have destroyed. At this point, you can't do anything and there's 
talking. (But pay attention.) Gades will come up to you and you must fight him 
again with just Aguro and Jerin with you. Use the Hero's Trick spell to up his 
and Aguro's attack power and have Jerin healing people when you need it. 
Occasionally, have her cast Vulcan, but I'd use her for healing. After this 
fight, get you HP and stuff up. Amon is the next Sinistral you must fight and he 
mostly uses spells. Use Jerin for Mirror, and you shouldn't have any problems as 
far as hit points are concerned. Then have her keep on casting Mirror on 
everyone. Have the Hero and Aguro whacking at Amon until he's destroyed. Go back 
to the shrine, get your stuff up and save. It'll save you a lot of trouble later 
on if you have to turn it off or something. This's also the last time you can 
save in the whole game. Then fight Daos, who still has Lufia under his power. 
When you fight him, have the Hero use Dread on Daos every once in a while; have 
Aguro fighting him and Jerin doing her thing with Mirror. Do this until you 
defeat him. Afterward, the Sinistrals begin to combine their energies together, 
forming into the last monster, Guard Daos. Just when things look at their worst, 
Lufia breaks free and she joins up with you for the final battle. For Guard 
Daos, use Lufia to cast Thunder and Protect (I think anyway, I just heard that 
from someone) Jerin for Mirror on herself and Lufia and have the other two hack 
away at the monsters. (This's my strategy. You can try your own. But keep what I 
said about Lufia in mind.) You'll have two confused people, but then if the 
girls aren't confused, one can fight G. Daos and the other can heal and get the 
men out of their confused state. You defeat Guard Daos, the last villain in the 
game and think that you have Erim left to fight. (At least I thought that.) But 
I was wrong. Just watch the rest of the game after you defeat G. Daos., because 
you can't control anything from here on. 
