Walker Boh's Guide to:
Lufia and the Fortress of Doom on SNES
Author: Walker Boh
Real Name: Bryan Peterson
E-mail: B-peterson@earthlink.net
Lufia And the Fortress of Doom Technical data:
Platform: Snes
Medium: Cartridge
Number of Players: 1
Genre: RPG
Save Ram? Yes
Number of Save Slots: 3
Table Of Contents
 I: Author's Note
II: Legal Disclaimer
III: Controls
IV: Hints and Tips
V: Other Stuff
VI: Characters
VII: Walkthrough
VIII: Revision History
IX: Closing Comments
     Author's Note:
I did not write all the other stuff that comes in FAQs, weapons, armors,
spells and such, but this is for reasons of space. I wanna save space on yours
and my hard drive, so I didn't want this to be too long. I may update this
guide with the weapons and stuff later on or make up a separate document for
that. Now for some other info. Unlike many authors of FAQs, I thought I'd
include a little info about me. I understand why people who don't do this
don't do it, (security reasons are a big part of it), but I'm not paranoid.
SO, here it is.
Name: Bryan Peterson
Alias: Walker Boh
E-mail: B-peterson@earthlink.net.
Age: 23
Interests: Eating pizza, talking about and watching The Simpsons, browsing
music websites, playing Video Games and pestering my cat
SO there you have it. I'm just your average guy. You may notice that I've
changed my E-mail address...again. This is because I'm now with Earthlink and
not AT&T Broadband. I moved recently and what's now Comcast wouldn't service me
at my new address, so that's why I went from Comcast to Earthlink and not the
other way around. Still, I've managed yet again to avoid getting a dialup
connection. Sorry fans, but I have no patience with dialup. I have DSL now. 
Anyway, on to the  walkthrough!
     Legal Disclaimer
This document is Copyright 2000/2002 by Walker Boh and may not under
any circumstances be used for profitable purposes. Don't try to get permition
either, cuz you aren't gonna get it. You are free to post this FAQ on your
webpage as long as my name appears in the document where I put it. feel free to
E-mail me about any mistakes or questions, or if you want me to tell you where
you can find some MIDI files from the game.
     Controls:
A button, talk to villagers, search shelves and barrels, open chests, and
excecute command on menu screen.
B button: Cancels last command in menu and also brings up the main menu screen.
X button: Press this over a spell in the magic menu to see what it does.
Directional pad: Moves cursor when in menus or character when in game screen.
Select button: No purpose.
Y button: no purpose.
Start button: Press this to start a game.
      Intro: Taken from the opening of the game
Without warning, the island suddenly appeared in the sky. Four foul and wicked
beings claimed it for themselves. They possessed the frightening powers of
Chaos, Terror, Destruction and Death. The people were horrified. They called
the evil ones Sinistrals, and the reign of terror continued. The world masses
its warriors to battle their dark foes, but the Sinistrals were all powerful.
Finally, in desperation, the people called upon their finest fighters, guy,
Artea, Maxim and Selan. So began the final battle...
     Hints and Tips
  As in any RPG, there's a lot of stuff that you should do to make your life
easier. This section will be there to help you with the day-to-day stuff.
  First off, when in a town, talk to EVERYONE, no matter how tedious that
might seem. You never know when someone might give you that little hint that
gets you past that tough spot.
  Second, when out of battle, use items to heal. MP is precious, and if you
use up all your MP healing and then have to use all your Hi-Magics or whatever
to replenish it and you're not in a boss fight, you'll screw yourself over
when the real monster's whipping you and you can't heal.
  Next, heal yourself when you get weak! Forget to heal and you'll die, and
fast!
Next, save your game anytime you find a cleric. You never know what's around
the next corner, and when you have a situation where you have to turn off the
machine, you don't want to lose all that data!
  Next, buy new equipment in each new town. Use the Look option for each
character to see what will work best with them. Don't think that your short
sword's gonna get you through the entire game.
  Another important thing is that you must remember to equip your new stuff.
It's kinda hard to use a sword when it's just sitting in your pack.
  Leveling up can be a pain in this game, since monsters seem to be a bit
stingy where EXP is concerned, but anytime you encounter Mimics and Red Cores,
try to kil 'em! It's hard, since they tend to run away more often than not, but
it's worth  it. It's an easy level gained right there if you win! They give
over a  thousand EXP, possibly more!
  Having trouble against a boss? Are you having trouble even though your
supplies are up to date? Well, the reason might be one of two. First, your
strategy might not be right. Some spells or attacks work better than others on
certain  bosses or even normal enemies for that matter. Also, your level could
be too low. In that case, next
time you get thrashed, don't trek back to the boss. Go out and fight and gain
a few levels. Then come back. More than likely that's what the problem is.
     Other stuff
This has got to be one of the best RPG's of its time. I have all three
installments of this series, and I will own the GBA one as soon after it comes
out as is financially possible for me. I
thought to myself, why not write a FAQ for Lufia I. I may do some other stuff
on this series, but the chances of me doing a Lufia II FAQ are pretty slim.
This is not because I don't want to, I do, but that game's so full of puzzles
that I don't remember everything about, that I'd have you all confused if I
tried. I may do a boss guide on that game at a later time. Anyway, let's get
onto Lufia I. First off, for each boss in the game there is a recommended
level you should be at before fighting them. Lufia's set up in such a way that
if you are not at or above the recommended level when you confront a specific
boss then you are almost guaranteed to die. Here's what the Boss battle
listings will look like.
Boss Battle: (Name of Boss) HP:
Weakness:
Recommended level:
Note: The only times you will not see the recommended level are at the
beginning of the game, as you do not have control over that for the Intro
scene. I will also not list the recommended level if you can't win the battle,
and yes there is one situation where that will happen. You will probably see
N/A for that particular boss.
     Characters
  First off, let's get acquainted with your characters.
Hero:  This is your main character. He is the descendant of Maxim and thus he
may  achieve a great destiny. He is an excellent swordsman and has great skill
in healing and defensive magic.
Lufia:  Lufia is the Hero's childhood friend. She appeared mysteriously in the
kingdom  of Alekia when the Hero was very young, and she knew nothing of her
past. She  will join you early on in the game and stick with you through most
of it. She  has great skill in defensive and offensive magic and will prove to
be a valuable  ally. Try to keep her alive as much as possible. However,
certain events later  in the game will make you wonder if she is really who she
appears to be..
Aguro:  Aguro is the commander of the Lorbenian army and joins you very early
on in  the game. Like the Hero, Aguro is a mighty warrior. His intelligence is
low,
and he tends to take serious damage from magic, so be careful. His MGR, (magic
resistance), is very bad. This will cause some problems, but with the right
equipment you can cut down on the damage he takes from magic. He has a
tendency to not hold in what is on his mind, and sometimes this can get
him into difficult situations as you will notice. Unlike the Hero and Lufia,
Aguro wields no magic, being uncomfortable with it and more confident in his
fighting skill.
Jerin:  This young woman is half human and half Elf. She joins you a little
later in  the game after she is rescued from a servant of one of the four
Sinistrals.  She leaves you in Belgen after you save her but then appears to
join you soon  after that. She is like Lufia in that she has great skill in
defensive and  offensive magic, and her bow is probably an invaluable weapon. I
could be  wrong, but I think she may be descended from Artea.
     Walkthrough
     Part 1: The Battle of Doom Island
You get to start the game as the mighty warrior Maxim. When you start, your
party comments on the flow of dark energy through the fortress, and then Selan
casts the Light spell. When you have control, go up all the way, then all the
way right, then down. When you reach stairs, go up them and continue all the
way. Note: There are treasure chests here, but leave them. You'll be coming back
here later and need what's in  the chests a lot more then than you do now.
When you reach the room with the crystal bridge, a voice will tell you you may
cross. It Is Daos, Sinistral of Chaos. Your party hesitates, suspecting a
trap, but after some dialogue they cross, trying not to show their fear. Before
the  battle, Maxim invokes the blessing of Dual Blade on the party. After the
dialogue, go up to meet your first boss. Note: For most of the bosses in this
game I don't know the exact HP, so if the range of HP seems a little wide for
some of them, that's why. Also note: If you have a better strategy for any
boss than the one I've listed here, feel free to E-mail me. You might even be
posted if you want.
     Boss Battle: Gades HP: 1000-6000
Weakness: Thunder and Sunder
This guy's the Sinistral of Destruction. He's very easy to defeat. He
doesn't use magic, so you won't have to worry about that. Have Selan cast
thunder, and Artea can use Flood or Sunder to cause a decent amount of damage
to him. Have Maxim attack with Dual Blade and Guy attack with his Zircon axe.
You should take Gades out in only a few rounds if you cast thunder and Sunder
on him.
  After the battle, heal up with Miracles (and don't worry, you won't run out),
and prepare for the next battle.
  Boss Battle: Amon HP: 1000-6000
Weakness: Thunder and Sunder
This guy's the Sinistral of Terror. He's a little tougher than Gades. He likes
to use Flood, Sunder, and I think Glacier and vulcan. If you want to protect
yourself against that, cast mirror on everyone. Then give him all ya got!
Thunder works well, and I believe Sunder and Flood also work. Try different
ones to find which ones work best. I took this guy out in only a few rounds
using Sunder and Thunder.
  After the battle, heal up if necessary and get ready
for the next battle.
  Boss battle: Erim HP: 1000-6000
Weakness: N/A
Erim is the Sinistral of Death. Although just as easy as the other Sinistrals, 
this chick deals more damage than the others. Magic is less effective against
her than the others, but it does work. Erim likes
to use Thunder a lot. Be careful if you do decide to use magic, because
sometimes she likes to cast mirror, and that'll make your own spells reflect
back on you! If she does use mirror, just use physical attacks until she dies.
Erim also  tends to use Dread a lot when she is close to dying. As with Amon
and Gades,  Erim can be taken down fairly quickly if you use Sunder and Thunder
and are lucky enough not to have her use mirror.
  Afterwards, heal up and prepare for the final battle!
  Boss Battle: Daos HP: 1000-6000
Weakness: Thunder and Sunder
This is the Sinistral of Chaos, and the mightiest of the four. He has weakness
to Thunder, but is a mighty magic user himself. He will use Glacier and Vulcan
a lot, and yes, he also uses Flood and Sunder. Just keep on him and he'll die,
and yes, the Thunder-Sunder combination will take him down fairly quickly if
you keep doing it. Note: I don't know how many of you noticed this, but in
Lufia II and 3 Daos is the Sinistral of Terror and in Lufia I he's the Sinistral
of Chaos. What's the deal here? Did he switch places with Amon after the first
and second Doom Island Wars?
Anyway, after the battle the Sinistrals begin to combine their energies into
one. The heroes know that this could destroy the world, and so they combine
their own energy to thwart the Sinistrals. They succeed, but they must pay a
terrible price.
After the sinistrals are defeated, Maxim asks if everyone is all right. Guy
and Artea shrug off the whole thing as nothing, but you can guess from the sad
music that all is not well. Selan tells Maxim that the
eruption went right through her, and that she can never return to earth. Maxim
refuses to accept that his love is too weak to return to earth. Selan says
that her only regret is that she can never again  stand with Maxim on their
home world or hold their child one last time.
After the tragedy, the fortress begins to break up. The platform where Maxim
and Selan are is too far away for Artea to be able to reach them with his
magic, but Maxim tells Guy and Artea to leave without him, because he will not
leave his wife to die alone. In sorrow, Artea and Guy argue with Maxim for a
moment, but Maxim tells them to leave again. Sadly, Guy agrees to leave and
Artea promises Maxim that he will spread the news to the people that the
Sinistrals are destroyed. After the dialogue, Artea warps himself and Guy off
Doom Island, and it shows Maxim and Selan as spirits watching over earth. Then
you get to watch a cut scene about what happened after the battle.
Part 2: A Startling Rumor and the Quest Begins Party's Level: 1
The actual beginning of the game happens 100 years after what was known as the
Battle of Doom Island. Note: I'm going to give the hero a name for the sake of
this FAQ, and since I like to give characters in my FAQs the same names as my
characters in the games, I will call him Wedge. I did this for two reasons.
First, (the main reason), is that Wedge is the name of a famous Star Wars
Character (most people will know this). And yes, Wedge is also the name of one
of my cats. You can name
your hero Wedge yourself if you'd like, as far as I know it's not copyrighted.
If you choose not to do that however, just remember that when I say Wedge I mean
the hero.
As the game starts, the seven-year-old Wedge is speaking to Roman, the
innkeeper in Alekia. Wedge is a brave and adventurous little lad, and it seems
he went to the caves today! Roman warns him to be careful but admits that he
hasn't seen any monsters there lately. But Wedge isn't afraid of monsters.
Around that time a mysterious girl appears at the inn, and after not saying
anything to Wedge's and Roman's questions, she finally says that her name is
Lufia. They play together for a while.
The scene then switches to a time nine years later. Wedge, (age 16),  is in
training to become an Alekian Knight. Today he goes to practice only to find
that it's canceled because nobody showed up. One of his fellow trainees
remarks that a guy named Jack is going to chase a girl named Yuria around the
castle. He and a friend leave to go watch. Wedge doesn't think much of this, but
another trainee tells him to lighten up. This is what peace is all about. Wedge
chooses not to respond, and leaves.
  Then the scene switches to Wedge and Lufia in a field of Priphea flowers. They
talk for a while and Wedge tells Lufia that he doesn't like how lax people have
become. He asks her what she thinks the people would do if the Sinistrals were
to return. They change the subject and Lufia agrees to bake a cinnamon pie for
Wedge. And isn't
Lufia's music just great?
Anyway, at about that time Wedge hears a couple patrons at the inn talking.
They're talking of a rumor that monsters have attacked the
kingdom of Sheran. Being the heroic dude you are, you decide to investigate.
Seeing as you don't tell Lufia, though, you sorta put her through the trouble
of baking for you only to not find you when the pie is done, and this REALLY
pisses her off.
When you have control of Wedge, go exploring in town. Don't forget to search
dressers and shelves and tables. These can sometimes hold very useful stuff.
In your search of the castle and city, you'll probably find the following:
Cloth Helm, (equip it on Wedge), Some arrow items and some potions and maybe a
Revive or two, Hold onto them, as the revives are kind of rare at this stage
of the game. You'll also find some stuffed animals, which are basically
useless. They have the ability to cause various status alements when thrown at
enemies, but in my experience, the chances of it actually working are so
absurdly remote that you might as well sell them. You only get 5 gold, but
that'll add up fairly quick once you get to fighting.
Note on arrow items: Items referred to as Arrow, for example Mid-Arrow, will
attack one enemy. Items referred to as Arrows, for example Hi-Arrows, attack
multiple enemies. The ones you find in Alekia are regular arrow items.
Don't forget to talk to the princess before you leave unless you don't want to
make some easy cash. She gives you 100 gold. Use it to buy any stuff you need,
(probably armor), and head outside to do some leveling.
There's a small temple on the world map, (I believe it's south from Alekia but
I don't remember for sure), and there you will find an old cleric who will
recover your HP and MP for free. Fight near him until you reach level three or
so, (the higher the better), and then you should have enough money for some
healing supplies, and believe me, you're really going to need them! Don't
forget to buy plenty of Antidotes, since where we're going next there are
spiders that can poison you.
  To the north of Alekia is the village of Chatam. Nothing here yet as far as
items are concerned, but talk to everyone here and heal if needed. Danil, one
of Chatam's citizens, says that his sister Lilah is in Sheran castle where she
works as a maid. He wants someone to go see if she's all right. Anyway,
there's nothing here now, but come back a little later.
When you're ready, head north again. You will see two cave entrences, and I
strongly recommend going to the right one first. You'll find some healing
supplies and some easy cash! How does a chest with 200 GP sound? There's
nothing else in that cave, so go to the left entrance. Work your way through
the cave and you will find the kingdom of Sheran. Doesn't this game have great
music?
You will find Sheran in ruins when you arrive, and the music is just great!
Everyone still conscious warns you of danger or tells you to get help. Ignore
the town and head into the castle if you want to do some plundering. You can
find some potions, (four in a row if I remember right), as well as other
useful stuff, such as a few MidArrow items, (these are stronger than the
regular Arrow items but still only attack one enemy. I don't believe there's a
MidArrows item). Once you're done, leave. Those locked doors aren't accessible
to you yet, and besides, you've got no companions!
Seeing as you have not as yet picked up any companions, head back to Alekia,
if you're seriously hurt do so with the Swing Wing item, (you should have
found several of these in your travels, and possibly an Escape or two. Talk to
the commander in the castle, and Wedge gets pissed to learn that the knights
will not be able to leave for Sheran within the week.
Go to the inn and talk with Roman, who says that Lufia has returned but is
still mad at you for leaving before the pie was done. Stay at the inn, (it's
free anyway), and then head upstairs and talk with Lufia. She basically
pledges her undying hatred of Wedge, (well, maybe not hatred exactly), and
then tells you to get the hell out of here. As you leave, Roman will tell you
that Lufia is not really angry with you, just worried about you. As you leave
town Lufia's music plays and she appears and invites herself along on your
journey.
After all is said and done, head out and get Lufia up a few levels, (and you
may want to find her a better weapon in the shops by using the Look option to
see what will boost her ATP. Once you feel ready, head to the Sheran Caves.
On your way through the caves you'll find a wounded man. It's Danil, from the
village of Chatam, who tells you to rescue his sister Lilah from Sheran
Castle, (if you talked to Danil before, you'll remember that Lilah works there
as a maid). Danil also gives you a key. Now you can open those doors that were
locked.
When you reach Sheran go to the castle. Open the doors and one of the rooms
will have some more treasures, (I can't remember what is in all the chests,
but grab it anyway.
Note: Hold onto any Great, Mind, power and Spell potions or gourds unless you
really feel you need them. It's widely recommended that you save them for the
end of the game. In the other room is the switch that opens the way to the
dungeons. In one of the cells you will find Lilah and the King of Sheran.
After some dialogue, you will get control of your character again, so leave
the castle.
Just as you are about to leave town you are confronted by a dark presence.
Lilah reveals that it was this being who destroyed Sheran, and Wedge confronts
him. The creature laughs at Wedge and Wedge sends Lufia back to Alekia with
the Sheranians. Then you will enter an impossible battle against none other
than Gades, the Sinistral of Destruction!
Boss Battle: Gades HP: ???
Weakness: None
Recommended level: N/A
Don't even bother, you can't beat him here, and I doubt you could even if you
leveled up a whole bunch. This is that fight you can't win, the one I hinted
at earlier. Even if you're at full health you can't win, because this guy does
massive damage to you, say about 500 HP per hit! You attack him a few times an
then he massacres you!
Lufia will then appear, for some reason, seeing her causes Gades to leave.
Makes ya wonder if she's really who she says she is.. Lufia tells you that
everyone from Sheran is safe and sound in Alekia and you head back there.
After some talking, go to the castle and get Lilah. She's in the guest room.
If you want some praise, talk to the king, who won't give you a reward for
your good work. What a waste of your valuable time! After you get Lilah, head
for Chatam, and Danil will be there. Watch the cinimatic scene. After the
cinimatic scene, talk to the old man and he'll give you something, (I don't
remember what), and then head back through the Sheran caves. If you enter
Sheran you'll notice that the town has been fixed up a little, but the
castle's still empty. If you didn't plunder the accessible parts earlier, (the
ones you didn't need the key for), you can still do so. Anyway, you'll
eventually find the town of Treck.
Part 3: The Death of a Hero and the Search Begins Party's level: 5-9
When you reach Treck, talk with everyone and yes, search any shelves, barrels,
jars and even flower patches, as some will yield some of the most interesting
items. Some of the people will tell you of an old man who watches the sea all
day. Go to the port in the south part of town, and there shalt thou find an
old man who will aid thee. Sorry, I'm kinda in a weird mood today. Anyway,
talk to the old guy and he'll have his niece, ainia, take you through a cave
east of Treck, and there you will find none other than Guy, whom you'll
remember from the beginning of the game! Guy is over a hundred years old now
but still alive. Troubled by his encounter with Gades, Wedge asks Guy what he
knows about the Sinistrals. Guy at first is unwilling to believe that the
Sinistrals have returned, but he soon decides not to take any chances. He
decides to do something about it. This is a very sad moment in the game. Guy
tries to get up but dies of a sudden heart attack. The music is just right for
the scene if you ask me. Before he dies, Guy manages to tell you to look up
Artea the elf, who will tell you more about Gades. When Wedge asks Guy where
Artea can be found, Guy tells Wedge that there is one in Grenoble who can
help. Then he dies, and Wedge, Lufia and Ainia bury him. Don't forget to
search the cross at Guy's grave for a short sword, which will boost Wedge's
attack power immensely. Note: anytime after this scene, if you come back here,
you will hear the mournful tune called Death of a Hero. It's the music that
plays when Guy dies.
After this tragedy, go back to Treck and do some leveling if you need to. Try
to be at about level 7-9 or so. You're about to come up against a very
difficult boss, and I wouldn't recommend fighting it unless you are at the
proper level. Go back to the town and buy anything you need, and yes, save
your game with the cleric in each town that has one.
When you feel ready, head to the port, where you will meet your next
companion, Aguro. Aguro is the commander of the Lorbenian army, and though he
uses no magic, he is a great fighter. He tells you that he heard about the
four Sinistrals and came to Treck to investigate. He then invites you to join
him for dinner at his camp. Then a boat sails into the harbor and monsters
disembark and sink all the ships. Aguro joins up with you for this battle and
believe me, you will need him!
Boss Battle: DemonlordX4 HP: 50-100 each
Weakness: Flash
Recommended level: 7-9
Good luck! These guys are complete bastards! There are four of them and
they're a pain in the ass to kill. You can have Lufia cast Flash or Dew on
them, but be careful, because the demons like to use Dew right back on you, or
cast Mirror on themselves. If they do, don't use magic, unless of course you
want to hurt yourself. Just keep attacking them and healing your party as
needed and you'll eventually defeat them. Note: The Demonlords like to heal
themselves sometimes, so watch yourself. Also note: Unlike the Final Fantasy
RPG's where if someone casts wall or mirror on themselves and you cast cure on
them and it reflects back to you, in Lufia that will not happen, and you'll
just end up healing them. In this game Mirror, Reflect, wall (or whatever you
want to call it), will not reflect healing spells. If you cast Shield, (Lufia
learns it), on as many people as possible, that will cut down on the damage
you take to a certain degree.
After the battle, Aguro will let you use his ship to get to Lorbenia, which
just happens to be northeast of Grenoble. What a coincidence! But
wait..There's more. It turns out that Aguro's ship was among those that were
destroyed, so you gotta go find another one. Dammit! If you were a good little
adventurer and talked with everyone you should have heard a guy mention his
Maberia. SO go through the cave north of Treck and you'll find it. Note: I
strongly recommend leveling up in the cave or outside Treck. You're about to
run into another very annoying boss, and if you don't have the best armor
Treck can offer go buy it. You're going to need it.
Once you're ready, go through that cave north of Treck, and if Wedge learned
float, cast it when you're near a poison pond so you can search it without
taking damage. One of them will contain a chest with the Daze ring, which will
help Lufia's DFP. Continue on and you will reach the other side of the cave.
When you get through the cave you will see the ship, but right when you get on
you will be attacked.
Boss battle: GoblinX3 HP: 50-100 each
Weakness: Arrow or MidArrow items
Recommended level: 8-10
These guys are EXTREMELY annoying. They don't use magic but they can do some
major damage to you. Just keep attacking, and Arrows work well, causing damage
to all three, and if you found some Mid Arrow items, (you probably found one
or two in your travels), use them. Mid Arrows do about 50 damage to them. And,
(Beginners tend not to remember this important fact), heal whenever you need
to. I noticed that Apart from the Flash spell, Lufia's magic didn't work all
that well on these guys.
After the battle you will sail the Maberia back to Treck. Talk with her
captain, (he's in the lodge), and he will offer you a free ride. Meet him at
the port and talk to him again and you'll sail to Lorbenia.
When you arrive at Lorbenia Aguro will leave, (don't worry, he'll be back),
and you can explore. Buy new stuff if you can afford it, then head to the
dress shop. Talk to everyone. Lufia gets all excited when she hears that
there's a big sale going on, and she decides to hang around and buy stuff.
Meanwhile, Wedge decides to go exploring, but then he notices a little boy
stealing from Lufia. He chases the boy and they have a little chat. Lufia
appears as the boy is denying the fact that he stole any money. Wedge is
thinking that the army might have need of a new recruit, but Lufia decides to
let the little boy keep what he stole if he promises never to steal again.
Once that's done head for the inn, where the innkeeper will tell you that the
boy's name is Lou Shaia, son of a famous inventor. Raile, the boy's father,
has little time to spend with his son, so Lou steals for a living. The
townspeople tend to ignore what Lou steals because they know his father's a
little strange. Stay at the inn, (and yes you do have to stay even if you
aren't hurt), and just as you leave the inn, Aguro will join up with you
again.
Buy new stuff for him, (although I think your short swords will hold you for a
while yet), and then head southwest to the little village of Grenoble.
Part 4: The Old Cave and the Mysterious Apprentice Party's Level: 10-13
Grenoble is famed for its treasure-hunting industry, and you need to do a
little hunting yourself. There's a guy in the Grenoble tavern who will let you
by him for 50 gold. Pay him and head into what a lot of people like to refer
to as the Spring Basement. Here, you can get tasks assigned to you, and turn
treasure in. Also, there's an old man who seems to know something about Artea,
but he will only tell you anything if you find him a fairy Kiss. He says it's
on the second level of the Old Cave north of town. Talk to the person behind
the desk to get assigned a task, and it just happens to be on the second level
of the Old Cave. So, when you're ready head there and enter the elevator.
You'll go to the second level.
Note: You get new tasks every five levels of experience, so be careful. If
your levels are too high you might skip a level, and if you skip a required
one like this I don't know if you can go back and get it. Also note:  there
are many empty treasure boxes, but open them all anyway to find some useful
stuff. Hold onto smokeballs because those will get you out of a battle if
you're hurt or don't feel like fighting.
You will be looking for the Secret Map, which will get you an easy 500 gold.
In the chest near that you will find a Power Ring, which you should give to
Wedge, as it will increase his ATP by about 10. One room will have a sign that
says only women can enter, so Lufia will go it alone for a little bit. Just
hope she doesn't get wasted!
You'll be in a room full of treasures. All are useful items, and one is the
Fairy Kiss! Woo-hoo! Now you can get out of here!
After getting the Fairy Kiss, head back to where you left Wedge and Aguro. If
you want to get out of the cave in a hurry, use an Escape item and you'll be
outside. Head back to Grenoble, stay at the inn if necessary, and go back to
the Spring Basement, and yes you do have to pay the guard again. Talk with the
lady behind the counter and she'll give you 500 Gold.
Remember the old guy? Well, ya better! Talk to him and he'll give you a
letter. He will also tell you that the letter will allow you to see Artea's
apprentice, who dwells at the top of the Northwest tower. That's your next
goal, but if you want more easy cash, go get assigned the third-level task in
the Old Cave. You have to find the Silver Whick. Also, you can find other cool
stuff there as well.
Once you get the whick, (That's if you choose to do it right now), go talk to
the lady in the Spring Basement again and she'll give you a whopping 1000 GP!
When you're ready, head for the Northwest Tower.
Isn't the tower music sort of creepy and mysterious in a way? The monsters in
here are a little tough, especially the Red Mages, but if Lufia has Deflect,
cast it on them to prevent them from using their magic for a while. Level
building is crucial for Wedge, since there's a boss at the top of the tower
that only he will be facing. Try to get him to level 13 before you come to
this place so you can go right on to the boss.
Get all the treasure, and one will be a Sonic Ring. Give it to Aguro. When you
reach the top of the tower heal up, and then you will meet Artea's apprentice.
He will agree that you are, (or could be), someone important but will only
tell you anything if you agree to beat him in a one-on-one battle. Say Yes,
and get ready for a tough battle.
Boss battle: Apprentice HP: 570
Weakness: Mid Arrows
Recommended level: 13
Good luck here! This guy can be extremely annoying. If you're not at level 13
or higher you're going to have major trouble with this guy. I do know someone
who beat him at level 10, but I personally wouldn't try to defeat him at such
a low level. As for how to defeat him, Mid Arrows cause around 50-100 damage
to him. Watch for him to use his Jolt attack, as that does around 40+ damage
to you. Unfortunately, the Apprentice has this nasty habbit of attacking twice
per turn. Sometimes he'll use Fake or a potion and attack both on the same
turn. Also, sometimes he gets to go before you do, so stay healthy! Just keep
attacking and healing as needed and you will defeat him.
Note: If you die in this battle you will only lose Wedge. You will revive as
the other member(s) of your party, (depending on whether or not you lost
anyone on the way up the tower. Since only Wedge was fighting the Apprentice,
you'll just have to revive Wedge and heal him at the inn.
After the battle pay close attention to what Artea's Apprentice says, then
leave. Head south for a ways and you will see a temple. There you will find
your friend from Alekia Temple, the one that healed you. He'll do so now as
well. Keep going and you will find the town of Kirof.
Part 5: The Mystery of the Ruby Party's Level: 13-15
Kirof is a small, peaceful village, but there's not much stuff to buy save
items, and if you can find a good piece of armor or weapon for anyone,by all
means buy it. Do the regular town stuff, (note there's no save person here),
and you will find a house with two little kids in bed. One is Mark, from the
kingdom of Medan, which is east a little from Kirof. The other is Reyna, a
girl from Medan whose family moved to Kirof after she fell ill. The kids talk
for a while and Mark promises to bring her the Hope Ruby from Medan, which he
believes can cure her.
After all that, talk with Reyna, (although I don't know if this is necessary
for completing the game), and leave for Medan. Medan is east of Kirof.
In Medan, search around the town and buy any needed supplies, (Stock up on
Stone Cures unless you've already gotten Wedge up high enough in levels to
learn Stone, which I doubt). Enter the castle and search around until you
reach the basement, where you'll overhear the princess say that the Hope
Ruby's a fake.
After that, leave and Mark will run off. You'll find him in Kirof, wanting to
go find Reyna, who has apparently disappeared. Wedge and Lufia talk with him
and finally, Wedge agrees to let Mark come along.
Note: To me, Wedge didn't seem all that reluctant to allow Mark to come. Now,
head north to the Ghost Cave.
Unfortunately, I can't really help you with this cave, since not only is it
large and infested with monsters to whom Wedge and Aguro do pathetically small
amounts of damage, but it is also extremely confusing, with passages that will
go nowhere, and lots of places to go. Just search around and find treasures,
(take the Ghost Ring when you find it and give it to Aguro. You will also find
the Monster ring, which unlocks a neat little cheat I'll tell you about later.
After searching the cave, you will eventually find an invisible bridge between
two fake, (or unstable), bridges which you can't cross. You'll fall  if you
try, so walk between them to find the correct bridge.
Note: I thought the following bit of information was something that was
required in order to cross the bridge, but apparently it's not. Somewhere,
(and please don't E-mail me to ask where because I happened upon it by
accident and couldn't tell you if you payed me a million bucks), you will find
a wounded man. Heal him and he'll tell you that things in this cave are not
always as they seem. Note: Nick Jakobi (cobes@lufia.net, says that it is not
necessary to find and heal  this guy to cross the invisible bridge.
Incidentally, Jacobi is webmaster of Lufia.net. The reason I assumed that it was
necessary to heal the wounded man was that until I did heal him I was unable
to cross the bridge on my first time through the cave. Anyway, whether you
choose to heal the guy or not, go to the SE corner of the cave and you should
find a staircase. Take it and eventually you'll find two bridges. You can't
cross them. If you try you'll fall, so walk between them. You will be
teleported across the bridge. If you want to get some more treasures then do
so, they're all fairly close to the boss. Then talk to Reyna. She doesn't
respond to Marks questions, and then the Phantasm appears and says that he's
been waiting for Reyna for a long time and will not allow anyone to interfere
with his plans to get the Hope Ruby. Get ready for a disappointingly easy
battle.
Boss Battle: Phantasm HP: 600-700
Weakness: Ghost Ring and Physical Attack
Recommended level: 15-18
This guy is absolutely pathetic! Just have Lufia and Wedge constantly cast
Drain on him to lower his defense,  while Aguro proceeds to kick his
insubstantial ass! He can do a healthy amount of damage but you do have
healing spells, (and don't forget to use 'em). Note: You do not have to have
both Wedge and Lufia keep using Drain. If you want you can have one attack.
I'd use Wedge to attack, as he tends to do more damage with his physical
attacks than Lufia does. Also note that though Mark comes with you he offers
no help whatsoever, but what can you expect from a little boy?
After the battle you will be in Kirof. You get some praise and Mark tells you
what little he knows of Elfrea, (That's where you have to go). Then head to
Medan to witness the princess's speech of truth. The music is good here, and
she basically tells the people that the Hope Ruby in the castle was the
biggest lie in the history of Medan. The people are not filled with rage but
are in fact moved by her speech. After the dialogue if you talk to the people,
some will confess an urge to go out and do something useful.
When you're ready to leave, talk to the princess and she will tell you that
you can now go to the town of Belgen, (which for an extremely weird reason I
have nicknamed Belchin'). It's probably because the two words sound similar,
you know, Belgen, belchin'? hahahaha! You'll have to forgive me. I'm kinda
going psycho here. Anyway, head east from Medan to find a cave, (actually
there are two, and the one northeast of Medan is not to be visited till
later). The one you want is east of Medan and is easily identifiable by two
people guarding a bridge inside. One says that Belgen is through this cave and
the other says to be careful and not get yourself killed. So do I.
Part 6: The Rite of Sacrifice Party's Level: 15-18
In Belgen, you must talk to everyone, and you will learn that Jerin, a half-
elf, has been sent to the West Dais to die. The people are all pissed because
they had to sacrifice Jerin to stop monster attacks. Talk to a young lady in a
basement somewhere in the town to learn where the key is. Her brother's got
it, and he's in the cave southwest of Belchin', uhm, I mean Belgen, sorry. GO
there and explore it thuroughly for good treasure. The young man at the end
will tell you to take the key and save Jerin. Go to the cave directly north of
this one to find the door. Unlock it and proceed through it to the other side.
On the world map is a temple. GO in and you will hear the same music you heard
when Gades destroyed Sheran at the beginning of the game. You will also see
Jerin on the altar. The guards won't let you near her, and then Lufia, Wedge
and Aguro have a little conversation and basically decide to stop the
ceremony. When the guards still don't let you go, you try to leave. Just as
you do the dragonlike Follower appears and steals Jerin. They're off to the
north tower, but don't go there just yet. Save in this temple. Note: If you
talk to the guards after Jerin is abducted they'll just be overcome with
horror, knowing  they may have started something that can't be set right when
they allowed Jerin to be taken.
Now it's time to learn about that little cheat I mentioned. You know how Sweet
Water sort of keeps monsters away from you? Well, give someone the Monster
Ring and use a Sweet Water, and prepare to be attacked at every step, and I
mean that literally! This happened to me just a few days ago while I was
getting ready to fight the Follower, and it scared the crap out of me because
I got killed. Then, after figuring out what was going on I realized that the
situation could be used to my advantage, and yours too! Wanna level up in a
hurry? Wanna make a lot of cash? Try this. Do so only if you have lots of
supplies though, you'll need them. I got all my characters into the 20-22
level range by doing this trick. If you can get Lufia up to level 21, you will
learn the incredibly cool Bolt spell. I didn't have it when I came here, but I
was a match for the monsters in the north tower. Whenever you're ready head
there.
The north tower is not terribly hard, (be careful, though, there are places
where you can fall right off the tower). There are lots of good items,
including two Miracles, (which will raise the number of Miracles you have in
your inventory to four or so if you held onto and didn't use the ones you got
in the North of Treck Cave and the Ghost cave. You can sell Miracles for a
hefty 2500 gold, but I'd hold onto them, as their power to restore all HP and
MP is great for when you run out of the other stuff. Also, search the tower to
find the powerful Flash Ring, which will cause Lufia's already powerful Flash
spell, (which doesn't always work but does most of the time), to become even
stronger!
In the hall of Teleporters, if you feel you're ready to face the boss, take
the far right warp tile. You will see the Follower and he tells you that he is
working to revive Amon, Sinistral of Terror. Then he basically says that
you're gonna help him. This battle's going to be hard, so watch out!
Boss battle: Follower HP: 800-900
Weakness: Lightning spells
Recommended level: 18-21
This battle will be a bit tough. If you got the Flash Ring, though, this
battle will be a breeze. Just keep Lufia using Flash unless she needs to heal.
If he kills someone, make sure the rest are healthy before you try to bring
them back. The reason why I say this is that sometimes the Follower gets to go
twice per round, and sometimes he gets to go before any of your characters, so
be careful. If you're wearing the Flash Ring, then Flash will cause around 80-
100 damage here. Have Wedge attack or heal when needed, (both Lufia and Wedge
should have Stronger by now), and keep Aguro busy by having him constantly
attack the Follower. This guy likes to use Frost, but I noticed that it didn't
do any serious damage except to Aguro, who seems to have really bad MGR
unless, (and sometimes even if), he's wearing some kind of protective armor or
ring. However, as with Aguro, Wedge and Lufia will only bear up well under the
Follower's powerful attacks if you remembered to update your supplies every
time you entered a new area. If you forget to do this then this battle will be
nearly impossible. Just keep on him and use Shrieks if he confuses anyone. Use
Awakens if he Drowsies you, and keep on him.
After the battle, talk to Jerin and you'll go to Belchin', I mean Belgen,
sorry.
You'll stay at the inn automatically, (and I believe any dead characters are
revived, then say farewell to Jerin, who doesn't join you yet. She does give
you another Miracle however.
After the dialogue, head east to Suringal, where you can upgrade again and
then talk to people.
Part 7: The Road to Elfrea Party's Level: 20-22
  In Suringal, one young girl will mention the Lost Forest and how you need an
Elven guide to get you through it. Head south from Suringal, (not forgetting
to save before leaving), and you will find the guide station. The old man will
say there is only one guide available. The party agrees to take them, and it
turns out to be none other than Jerin, who now joins you at level 14. If you
take a look at the list of her spells, you'll see that she's got Warp and
Escape. In spite of this, don't sell your Escapes and Swing Wings. You may
need them if Jerin runs out of magic in a place where you don't feel you have
enough strength or supplies to make it out on your own. There's some dialogue,
(as Lufia's a bit dubious about accepting Jerin's help. When Jerin asks Wedge
if Lufia's always like this, Wedge basically says yes, but not to worry about
it. Lufia gets pissed, and I think she zaps Wedge with Flash here, what a way
to treat your boyfriend!   After that, head to the Lost Forest. Just follow
Jerin's directions and you will come out at the town of Jenoba. There is
something you HAVE to do here in order to progress later on. Do it now just to
get it out of the way. There's an old woman in the basement of the Cider
house, and you absolutely MUST buy her tea. By now you might have already
learned what she tells you, but you do have to talk with her. Basically she
says that there are three towers and three gems. The gems are in the towers,
but they are not in the correct ones. You must find them and place them in the
right towers. There's a blue, red and green tower, and each has a gem of the
same color. Your mission: Place the blue gem in the blue tower, the green gem
in the green tower, and the red gem in the red tower, in that order. Ya gotta
find 'em first, though. So here's what ya gotta do. I do not remember the
exact locations of the towers, but you should have no trouble finding each
one, and yes, the tower itself is blue, green or red. First
  head to the blue one. This one's easy. Go up to the third floor to find a
room with a hole in the center. Fall through it twice and you will find the
Green Jade, and yes, it's one of the gems you need. Now wasn't that easy?
Note: Be careful about what hole you fall in. Fall down the wrong one and
you'll be starting all over again from the tower base! There are other good
treasures in this tower, but if ya don't wanna get 'em that's your choice. I
recommend it, though, as even if it's something you don't need you can sell it
for some easy cash. Also, one will be a blue ring, which will help Wedge a
lot.
  After the blue tower go back to Jenoba or head to Ruan, (you're probably
closer to Ruan but it's up to you), and if you didn't upgrade weapons and
armor yet, do so now if there's anything you can use in either town. Then head
to the green tower. You aren't placing the gem here yet though, (even though
you do have the Green Jade), not till after you get them all.
  This tower's a little tricky but not very. The cool part is that there's an
inn in here! Stay there any time you wanna heal up easy unless you're not near
it. In one of the rooms you'll find a switch. Move it to the Down position to
find the broken Red Sapphire. What good is this?
  After Wedg chats with his friends, return the switch to its UP position,
(you will be back later and you need to raise the switch to get to where you
place the gem, so do it now to save time. Then get the other treasures if you
didn't already. One will be a green ring, which I believe Jerin can use. When
you're done, head to Ruan.
  If you came here before then Jerin'll be able to warp ya here in no time! GO
to the jewelry shop and the Jeweler will say that Rubies and Sapphires are the
same except that one's red and the other's blue. Also, if you talk to
everyone, they'll tell you about how there's a beautiful lake north of town
but it's been turned into poison marsh. An old woman will tell you that the
Dark Ghost has captured the Water Fairy, (who appears to you every time you
die), and turned the water around Ruan and in the red tower into poison marsh.
She also says that only when the ghost is destroyed will the water return to
normal, but no one wants to fight the Dark Ghost. So now,it's time to head to
the Red Tower. If you want you can go back to Medan.
  Remember how I said earlier on the way to Belgen that the other cave wasn't
to be visited yet? Well, now I think you can go get what's in there now. The
other cave, (the one northeast of Medan),  is the Mines of Medan. In there is
an old man who will not give you the true Hope Ruby unless you talked to that
old woman in Jenoba and bought her tea, and also learned from the Ruan Jeweler
that rubies and sapphires are the same. I've also heard that he won't help you
if you haven't defeated the Dark Ghost and also gotten the gem from the red
tower, so if he doesn't help you now that's why.
  Go back to Ruan, and you will find that the red tower's right there. How
convenient! Note: You'll find a red ring in this tower, but I don't like how
it lowers certain atributes, so I wouldn't bother with it. Sell it for some
hefty cash if ya wanna. If you enter the red tower's basement you will find
that it's completely covered with poisonous swamp. Cast Float to search it,
but you can't get the gem early. Instead, get the other items you'll find
here, then head to the top of the tower. There's a section of holes when you
get close to the top, so watch your step! Once you're past that, get ready for
what in my opinion is the toughest battle yet!
  Boss Battle: Dark Ghost HP: 1000-4000
Weakness: Bolt
Recommended level: 21-22
  This battle will be very tough, even if your levels are where they ought to
be. Did you hold onto the Ghost Ring? If you did it'll make the fight a little
easier, but it's not needed. If you do want to use it, I'd give it to Aguro
before starting the battle. I give it to Aguro because he uses no magic. This
will free up your three magic users to use their spells. What you have to do
is have Wedge constantly cast Drain to lower the ghost's defense while Jerin,
Lufia  and Aguro attack. Have Lufia constantly cast Bolt unless she needs to
heal someone. Unless more than one person needs to heal, don't stop casting
Drain with Wedge. If you have Hi-Arrows, have Jerin use them, as they're
better than her normal attack, and her magic does not work all that well here.
Remember, DON'T STOP USING Drain and BOLT UNLESS ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY. I think
without the Flash Ring Bolt does around 70-90 damage. If you have the Flash
Ring on then your Bolt spells will do about 140 damage each time. Any time the
ghost uses his Water spell (I've never fought him and not seen him use
it), heal up with both Wedge and Lufia, and Jerin if she learned Stronger. Try
to wait until she does before coming to this tower, which means wait until
she's at level 20. The Water spell is bad for all of you, but it's
especially bad for Aguro. It tends to do anywhere from 30 to 50 damage, so
watch out! Unfortunately, just like all the other bosses in this game,
sometimes the Dark Ghost gets to go before any of your characters, and like
the Apprentice and the Follower, he sometimes gets to go twice. In short, stay
healthy! The Dark Ghost also likes to cast Absorb on you sometimes, so be
ready to replenish magic points, because he can steal a fair amount of MP from
you. When the Dark Ghost starts to heal himself, that's your cue that you've
almost got him! If Wedge was using Drain the whole battle, have him attack
unless healing is in order for more than one person. Wedge's physical attacks
do about 30-50 damage, so you shouldn't have much trouble. Make sure Wedge has
the Blue Ring though. Have Lufia cast Bolt if her magic hasn't run out and you
still have Miracles or HI-Magics to replenish it when it does, and have Jerin
and Aguro attack him. Keep attacking him and eventually the ghost will die
with what in my opinion is an awesome sound!
  After the battle you will meet the Water Fairy, and you're actually alive
and not dead this time. Remember that room completely covered in poison? Go
there now to find that it's safe to go there. In that room you will now find
the Blue Jade. Now if you didn't go to the Medan mines earlier, (or if you did
and the old guy wouldn't help you), go there and he will give you the last of
the three Gems, which just happens to be the real Hope Ruby! What? You didn't
know? Weren't you paying attention when the princess of Medan explained it to
the people? Anyway, now it's time to place the gems!
  First, head to the top of the blue tower and you will have the option of
placing the Blue Jade. Do so. Then head to a town and heal if you need.
  If you do not need to heal or if you have already done so and are ready to
place the next gem, head to the top of the green tower to place the green gem.
Note: The staircase controled by that switch you had to pull last time is what
leads to the top. If you didn't reverse it after finding the broken gem last
time you'll have to do it now. Now do you see why I said to do it before?
  After placing the gem, go to the red tower, and I believe the pedestal's
kinda close to the place where the boss was. Place the last gem, and yes, you
do have to place them in the order mentioned here. When the last gem is placed
Jerin learns the Elf spell and you are magically taken to Elfrea.
     Part 8: The Land of the Elves and the Mysterious Cave Party's Level: 22-
23
  In the village of Elfrea, you will finally meet Artea, and it's about time!
Talk to everyone. You will notice that you get to stay at the inn for free
because you're human! Talk to everyone in town and someone will take you to
Artea. he's old now and lost his sight after the Doom Island Battle. He almost
mistakes you for Maxim, (you are his descendant after all, and so it's only
natural that you would radiate the same energy as him). Artea gives you the
Shrine Key so you can open that locked door in the basement in this town. He
tells you that without the Dual Blade you can't hope to beat the Sinistrals.
Artea urges you to find the sword, because the people of the world cannot
relive the nightmare of 99 years ago. When Wedge asks where the Dual Blade is
and is told it's underwater, he despairs. Artea tells you to look up Professor
Shaia, whom you heard about in Lorbenia. He has apparently built a ship that
can travel underwater. You can go to Doom Island's ruins and find Dual Blade!
  After the dialogue, try leaving and Artea will stop you. He will give Jerin
Artea's Bow. The only weapon mightier than that is the Might Bow and you don't
get it for a while yet. I'd hold onto Artea's bow though, as it attacks all
enemies, kinda like an Arrows item, except this one won't run out on you! Then
head to the Shrine and go through to Ranqs.
  You'll end up having to do a little walking, and soon you should come to
Ranqs. The monsters here are a bit annoying, but if at any time you need to
get healed up, feel free to cast Elf, (Jerin learns it after you place the red
gem), to get back to Elfrea. If it takes you a while to find Ranqs, you might
want to do this a few times. Note: I got killed my first time through this
area, so don't get worked up if you do. It's a long walk. Just keep searching
and you will find Ranqs, the town of miners.
  In Ranqs, you will learn that all the men are gone to the tunnel to Odel,
but they can't get through it yet because a strange forcefield is blocking it.
Heal up, upgrade as needed, and save your game.
  Once ready, head to the tunnel. You'll find the men from Ranqs. Talk to them
and try to get through the cave. You'll find you can't. What're ya gonna do?
Well, there's another cave on the world map, so go there and talk to the old
man. He'll tell you the sequence for the forcefield. Write it down so you can
remember it.
  Note: The sequence to the forcefield is done in steps, not screens, so if
you have to go up 2 it means 2 steps not two screens.  I'd help you with this
part but I don't remember the entire sequence.
  Anyway, when you're done, head to the cave and perform the sequence. If you
do it right you'll be able to proceed. Head to the kingdom of Odel.
  In Odel, search around and upgrade your equipment. Then when you're done,
head to the castle. In the castle you need to find Piron the architect, as the
bridge to Arus is out. Arus is a village of powerful magicians and one of them
may know something about the Dual Blade. Note: in the basement of the castle
is one of Professor Shaia's labs. The people will tell you that Raile Shaia's
in Arus, all the more reason to go there.
  Anyway, Talk to Piron, who'll ask you to find his assistant, who is in Lyden
enjoying the good food. Lyden is on the Southeast tip of the island, so head
there.
  When you reach Lyden, (and it's a bit of a walk), talk with Piron's friend,
who is in the restaurant. He'll leave for Odel, and he doesn't even stay for
dessert!
  Go back to Odel and Piron will ask you to go check the condition of the
bridge. Head southwest and you'll cross a bridge. From there head north and
enter the cave.
  When you reach the bridge, your party will comment on the shocking state of
disrepair the bridge is in. Then head back to Odel. Piron will tell you to
meet him at the bridge, so head back there. This time the architects will be
at the bridge, and Piron asks you to go to the ledge to his right and watch
him work. This requires you to go through a very big cave, (take the
northernmost of the three entrances), and it's a little frustrating. However,
it does give you the chance to level up and find some cool stuff. When you get
to the ledge, watch Piron work and then Escape out of the cave. Head back to
the cave with the bridge and cross over.
  Eventually, you'll come to an enchanted door. All your party tries to read
the magic words, but when they do the others won't understand them. Lufia
finally tries and she can read the words. Lufia will open the door and you'll
find your way to Arus.
     Part 9: The Village of Arus and the Tower of Grief Party's Level: 23-25
  Talk to the people of Arus and some will say that the elder is at the Tower
of Grief meeting with Professor Shaia, who just happens to be that guy we're
looking for. Note: the Elder is also an important person to talk to, as he
might know something about Dual Blade. Also watch the cool little scene where
Lufia gets all happy about the Priphea and starts romping in the flowers.
  When you're ready, head to the tower of grief. There's a little cave you
have to go through to reach the tower, but it's not too hard. The cool thing
about the Tower of Grief is that there's no boss at the top, just the Elder,
who will increase Lufia's MP by 10 points, as well as tell you that you just
missed Professor Shaia. Head back to Odel. Note: if you did some exploring
when you were fixing the bridge and found Lab 2 in Odel Castle's basement, you
will have learned that the west exit will take you to Shaia Lab 1, which is in
Platina. If you visited it earlier then Jerin can warp you there. Go there now
and you will meet professor Shaia.
      Part 10: Raile Shaia and the Falcon Party's Level: 25-27
  When you find Shaia Lab 1, (whether it be by warping or finding it on your
own), you will finally meet Raile Shaia. He seems a little bit weird, as he
tels Jerin that one of his inventions could make her hair even prettier.
Jerin, Wedge and Lufia have a bit of an argument and then they get down to
business.
  Shaia will then show you his ship, which is called the Falcon, like in Star
Wars. At first the party is a little dubious about taking Falcon, since Shaia
admits that it hasn't been tested yet. He will then take you on a quick cruise
in the Falcon, and you actually get to go underwater! However, this is not
greeted with enthusiasm, as the boat leaks. However, when Wedge starts
complaining about it Raile basically tells him to shut up. You will then
receive Falcon, and now you can travel on the water. Now Professor Shaia tells
you to go to Carbis, which lies to the west of Platina. He'll meet you there.
     Part 11: The Quest for Alumina Party's Level: 25-28
  Take your newly-acquired ship and sail west. It may take you a little while
to find Carbis, (and you will be attacked while you are on the ship), but when
you do find it, go see Raile. He'll ask you to find a man named Cooper, who
lives in Bakku. Here's one of those times where Aguro's mouth gets him into
trouble. He tells Raile to get off his butt and go find Cooper himself. Jerin
reprimands him and Lufia breaks up the argument. Raile says he'll prepare
things while you go find Cooper. He tells you that Bakku is west of Carbis.
  Once in Bakku go talk to the Cleric, who will tell you that Cooper has gone
to explore the fifth level of the Old Cave. If you have not yet been given
this task then this is a time when you don't want your levels to be too high.
However, even if you've already visited the fifth level of the old cave and
gotten  the Golden Pawn at an earlier time you will still be able to meet
Cooper.
  At any rate, when you find Kooper, he'll decide he has to go see Shaia, and
he tries to use an Escape. However it doesn't work. Jerin will then use her
magic to get everyone out of the cave. Warp to Karbis.
  Once in Karbis, go find Raile. Note: there's a cleric and a healer in there
if you haven't already noticed. When you find Shaia, he and Cooper will
explain that in order for Falcon to safely travel under water it needs more
Alumina. Alumina is the metal from which Falcon was made. Raile says that
seven pieces should be enough to make Falcon safe for underwater travel. He
also tells you that a man named Brant knows where Alumina can be found, and he
is supposedly in Linze, which is beyond the Tower of Light north of Bakku.
  Warp back to Bakku  and you will learn from the Elder that the key to the
tower was stolen by a suspicious old man who is holed up in the tower and
won't come out. That therefore, is your next destination. The tower is north
of Bakku, so head there when you're ready.
  This tower can be a little tough, because it's confusing. You need to fall
through some trap doors to get where you need to be. Just work your way to the
top of the tower and you will meet the toughest boss yet!
  Boss Battle: Guardian HP: 2000-5500
Weakness: None
Recommended Level: 28-30
  This battle will be a tough one. Here's my strategy. Have Wedge and Lufia
cast Drain every so often to lower his extremely high defense, then have them
attack. Do this unless healing is absolutely necessary. Have Jerin and Aguro
attack as normal. Don't bother to use magic on him because it doesn't work. He
has very high MGR, and I mean VERY. He will use Dread, Flame and Blizard.
Those last two will be bad for Aguro, but if he has the yellow ring he will be
able to stand up to the attacks a bit better. Even with all your armor and
weapons up to date this battle will be hard, and even if you take little
damage from his attacks, (a bit unlikely), it will be a long fight. His HP is
very high, (as I said I don't know  the enemies' exact HP). Just keep
attacking him, heal when necessary and you will defeat him.
  After the battle you will hear Amon's voice and then he and Gades will appear.
Gades and his brother will bully you around a bit but not attack. Amon will
remark that he revived sooner than he'd expected, and Gades will bully Wedge a
bit. Then he will tell the party that the dark reunion is near at hand as even
now Daos is reviving. Then the Sinistrals will depart.
  After the Sinistrals leave, grab the key from the chest and return to the
first floor of the tower. Note: I have also heard that if you come back here
later after getting the key, the chest which contained the key will contain a
might helmet. If anyone can shed any light on that, please let me know.
Anyway, now work your way down to the first floor again. There you'll find a
door leading to the world map. Here you will finally find Linze.
     The Town of Linze and Gayas Cave Party's Level: 29-31
  When you find Linze, upgrade your supplies if you can afford to. If you
can't I suggest getting a new task at the Old Cave northwest of Grenoble. If
you can get the Seventh Level task you will get an easy 10000 GP and be the
greatest treasure hunter there ever was. If not, fight around and sell any
item you don't have any use for. If you're REALLY desperate sell any Miracles
you have, as you get an easy 2500 GP. When you're done, talk with everyone.
They'll tell you that Brant, the guy we're looking for, went to Gayas Cave to
search for Alumina. Use the stairs in one of the houses to find the entrance
to Gaya's Cave. Inside, search around for the Alumina. At the bottom of the
cave you will also find Clack, a Doom Island Researcher. Talking to him, you
will be presented with four choices. Talk to him about each of these four
things, then follow him to his room. He will give you the Wave Ring, which
belonged to Maxim. Give it to Wedge. Now Escape outa here unless you want to
make money and EXP. When you're ready, it's time to go to Marse.
     Marse and the Fargo Islands Party's Level: 30-32
  From Linze, board your ship and head north along the coastline. Eventually
you'll find Marse. Note: I got stuck in a little pond type deal near Linze and
so I had to warp to another area and search for Marse from there.
  Once in Marse, I recommend taking the cruise so you know where everything
is. Then it's time to go after more Alumina!
  Here are the locations of all seven Alumina pieces.
1.	Gaya's Cave
2.	2. Elba Island
3.	3 and 4. Loire Island, one piece gotten from Brant when you save him from
a
trap door, the other found in a treasure box.
4.	5 and 6: Ulupp Island: This island is linked to Elba Island by
transporters, and you must make use of them to find all three pieces of
Alumina, the one on Elba and the 2 on Ulupp.
5.	7. Herat Castle.
6.	  The piece of Alumina is in the basement, but first ya gotta satisfy the
king's appetite, and yes, it is an appetite for food and nothing else. It
seems that his appetite is getting on the cooks' nerves. Everything he eats
tastes terrible. Hint? Go to Lyden and talk with the Wizard of Taste. He
will tell you that he came up with a spell that makes any food taste good,
even if it's something someone hates. It was originally intended for
famine, when food was scarce. He asks you to go to the cave east of Herat,
where the purple newt lives.
7.	  I had loads of trouble finding this cave, but I called Nintendo's help
line, (1-900-288-0707), and I now have good directions to give you. From
Herat, sail Falcon west until you see some rocks in the water. Dock your
ship and walk south to a shrine. This is the Egg Dragon's shrine. If you've
collected all 8 dragon eggs by now, talk to the dragon to get a wish. If
not, don't go in. From the shrine, head north across a bridge. You'll find
a cave. Search it thuroughly for the purple newt. You'll need to lower a
switch to get it.
8.	  Once the newt is in your hands head to Lyden to get the ingredients.
Once
that's done, go back to Herat and give the magic flavor to the cook. He'll
whip up a dish and then you can talk to the king. He'll give you his jewel
collection. This collection is in the basement of Herat Castle. Among the
items you find is the last piece of Alumina, finally!
9.	     Part 12: Aisen Island and the Pirate Tower Party's level: 30-40 the
higher the better
10.	  So now you've got to go to Karbis and get Falcon fixed up right?    It
just doesn't get any wronger! When you get to Karbis you learn that Raile
went to rescue his son Lou, whom you've already met. Lou and Raile are in
Aisen Island's Pirate Tower. Now it's time to go there.
11.	  This tower is rather tough. On one of the floors you'll find Raile,
who tells you that you have to push switches in order to ghet the key. So
when you come to four switches and a door switch, here's what ya do. Step
on the switches in the following order. Upper Left, Lower Right, Lower Left
and Top Right, then the door switch. Do it wrong and four pirates will
attack. Do it right and the door will open. Talk to the head pirate and a
boss fight will ensue.
12.	    Boss Battle: Bosun and Pirate HP: 1000+ Bosun 2000+ Pirate
13.	Recommended Level: 40-50
14.	Weakness: ???
15.	  This battle is going to be tough even if you follow these directions
to the letter. Have Lufia equip the Blast Ring and cast Blast or Sunder
every round unless healing is needed for all characters. Have the ones not
using magic focus their attacks on Bosun first or he'll keep healing the
big guy. They like to change status with arrows and special attacks, so be
ready to cure with the propper items. Even if they don't confuse you, (very
unlikely), the big guy has a nasty storm attack which does affect everyone, so
you may wish to have
Jerin cast Mirror. Persistence is the key here. It may take you several
tries to beat them, (it took two for me).
16.	  After the battle you'll save Lou and get the Pirate Key. Work your way
back to where Raile was. Free him and you'll see a short scene. Then warp
to Karbis.
17.	     Part 13: The Dual Blade and a shocking revelation Party's Level:
40-50 the higher the better.
18.	  In Karbis, talk to Raile and he'll get his son to help him fix Falcon
up. When that's done, sail to Soshette, and dive into one of the whirlpools
by pressing A. Work your way through the caves and you will come to Doom
Island.
19.	  Doesn't Doom Island's ruins have good music? Anyway, remember how you
got to the Sinistrals in the beginning of the game? Repeat those directions
to find Dual Blade. After the statues rise up, the companions notice that
Erim's statue resembles Lufia exactly. The Sinistrals will then appear and
Daos will claim that Lufia and Erim are one and the same. In an attempt to prove
his point, he shocks Lufia with energy
to try to get her to remember her past. After the scene, head to Karbis and
Raile will tell you that if you go get some Power Oil from Epro he'll fit
Falcon to fly up to Doom Island. SO head north of Marse to find Epro.
20.	     Part 14: The Power Oil Quest Party's level: same as above
21.	  In Epro you'll find that the road to the cave where the Power Oil is
located is blocked. However a person will tell you to find a man called
Hedge, as he is the only man who can help you find an entrance. Hedge is NW
of Epro on the map. He'll say that the Power Oil is in the Oil Cave and
give you the key. But ya gotta enter from Underwater. TO find this cave,
enter the eddies near Epro.
22.	  The Oil Cave is not too hard, just be careful of the enemies. Note: I
defeated the boss of this cave without the Dragon Ring. Eventually you'll
find a dragon. Kill it and the oil is yours.
23.	     Boss Battle: Oil Dragon HP: ????
24.	Recommended Level: 50+
25.	Weakness: Dunno, Thunder?
26.	  The Oil Dragon is much easier than Bosun and Pirate. Have Jerin
constantly Mirror everyone and have Lufia use Thunder. If the Oil Dragon
uses Mirror, and he may do this a few times, stop using magic and hit him
normally. If Mirror is on everyone his fire attacks will not hurt you. They
do little damage to him, but little damage is better than no damage. I
recommend having Wedge at level 47 or higher so he can cast Valor. That's
better by a long shot than Boost.
27.	  After the battle get the power oil and go to Frederia. This is south
of Karbis and is Professor Shaia's forth lab. Give the oil to Raile and he
and some assistants will fit Falcon so it can fly. Then just as you are
saying your thanks and farewells to Raile, someone will run into the lab
and tell you that Doom Island has positioned itself above Glasdar Tower.
That's your next goal.
28.	     Part 14: The Tower of Glasdar Party's level: 50 or higher
29.	  First, ya gotta get the key. East of Glasdar Tower is the town of
Arubus. People will talk about Doom Island and how it's positioned itself
above the tower. So, head West of Arubus, (I believe Arubus is west of
Frederia), and enter the cave. You can't land near the tower, so you need
to go through the caves.
30.	  These caves are somewhat confusing, but work your way through them and
search carefully. Eventually you will find the Glasdar Key. When you come
to a door, use the key on it. You'll come out near the tower.
31.	  Glasdar is a tough tower, but it's because of the monsters. Just work
your way up the tower by following the signs which say what floor you're
on. If they are going up in number you're on the right road. Eventually
you'll see three switches in a row. Step on the middle one to proceed. At
the top, get ready for a boss battle.
32.	     Boss Battle: Nazeby HP: 5000 or so
33.	Recommended Level: 50+
34.	Weakness: Thunder
35.	This can be a little tough, but if you have Jerin cast mirror and do
nothing else, Nazeby's magic will not hurt you. I would advise giving Lufia
the Flash Ring and having her cast Thunder. It won't do loads of damage
right off, but if you keep on doing it it'll quickly increase. Have Aguro
and Wedge attack or heal as needed, (Wedge's Valor spell will be very
valuable), and with patience and time, Nazeby, last servant of the four
Sinistrals, will be destroyed.
36.	  After the battle, Nazeby will decide that as atonement for failing to
carry out the instructions given him by Daos, he will give the party to the
Sinistrals as a parting gift. So saying, he
unleashes his last energies on Lufia and the party, knocking everyone but
Lufia unconscious. Then Daos' voice speaks to Lufia. He uses his energies
in an attempt to make Lufia remember who she really is. After fighting the
dark spirit within her for a while, Lufia is eventually overcome and obeys
Daos' command to take up the Dual Blade. She then vanishes and the others
awaken.
37.	  After Lufia vanishes, the others awaken and notice that Lufia and the
Dual Blade are gone. Jerin and Aguro get a bit suspicious, but after Wedge says
his speech, they decide that Erim or not, Lufia is still their
friend and they have to free her and stop the Sinistrals!
38.	  The scene changes to Doom Island where Lufia approaches Daos' throne
and deposits the Dual Blade at his feet. She questions Daos, asking him why
he did not destroy her, as she could have defeated him with Dual Blade.
Daos points out that had it not been for the Dual Blade, Erim would never
have remembered who she was. Then Daos unleashes his energy on the Dual
Blade, destroying it!
39.	  Once the scenes are over, board Falcon and cast Warp to go to Arus.
Don't worry about staying at an inn, you'll have a chance to heal very
soon. From Arus, make Falcon fly and head NW of the Tower of Grieff to Doom
Island!
40.	Part 15: The Final Battle Party's Level: 50 or higher
41.	  This area's not easy in my opinion. The monsters here will definitely
give you a run for your money. The stately musical theme of Doom Island's
overworld is quite catchy, wouldn't you say? Anyway, there's a shrine on
this Island, so enter it to heal up. You may also save your game if you
wish, and I recommend this, as you can board Falcon again and return to
Earth if you want to buy any last-minute supplies.
42.	  Anyway, once you've done whatever you need to do, go to the Fortress
of Doom. You know the directions, right? Well, follow 'em and you'll find
Dual Blade, which you saw Daos destroy earlier. While the companions survey
the shattered remains of the Dual Blade, Gades, Amon and Daos appear,
followed by Lufia/Erim. After some more dialogue, during which Lufia joins
Daos, the Dual Blade suddenly begins to ring and it then reforms. Wedge
will then receive the Dual Blade. Now it's time for the last battle!
43.	    Boss Battle: Gades HP: 3000+
44.	Recommended Level: 50+
45.	Weakness: None
46.	  Compared to when you fought him at the beginning of the game, Gades is
not going to be easy here. You will only have Aguro and Jerin with you, and your
levels are most likely not as high as Maxim's party's were. Just whack him with
your weapons and don't use mirror. Gades doesn't use magic, so Mirror will be
useless. When your HP gets low, have Wedge cast Valor, (or Jerin if she's
learned it yet). This will heal everyone
completely. You'll also want to have as many Miracles as you can carry and find.
They'll REALLY come in handy.
47.	     Boss Battle: Amon HP: 3000+
48.	Recommended Level: 50+
49.	Weakness: None
50.	  As with the last fight, this one is not going to be a walk in the
park. Well..it won't if you don't cast Mirror on everyone. Have Jerin cast
Mirror and do nothing else. Mirror only lasts a few turns, and you don't
want Amon getting in that lucky thrust. He has a Chaos attack which, if
successful, can result in your whole party being confused. Keep Jerin casting
Mirror and have Wedge and
Aguro attack as normally. Note: to prevent Jerin from getting confused right off
the bat, have her mirror herself first every time. If you can keep up the
Mirrors, you will be practically invincible. Very rarely has Amon used physical
attacks in my experience. He tends to stick to magic. Anyway, keep on him and
he'll be destroyed.
51.	 Important note!: After the battle with Amon, you will have one last
chance to leave the fortress for whatever reason, so if you need to leave
to save or replenish supplies, do it now, because you won't have another
chance! If you feel you're ready, advance to fight your next battle!
52.	     Boss Battle: Daos HP: 3000+
53.	Recommended Level: 50+
54.	Weakness: None
55.	  This is also a rather tough fight, but once again you can use Mirror
to make yourselves all but untouchable. Daos will use Dread a lot, but that
merely lowers defense and doesn't inflict damage. Still, having Mirror enabled
all the time will make this inefective. Have Jerin use Mirror ALL THE TIME
UNLESS ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY. Daos has an Amnesia atack which is an all-party
attack, and I believe it confuses, but I had my Mirror on all the time. I
recommend this for you also. Keep it up and you will win the battle.
56.	  After you defeat Daos, he will call on the other Sinistrals to join
with him. But right in the middle of the transformation, Wedge manages to
break Lufia free, and now you will have her in your party! Once this is
done it's time to face your last opponent. You're nearly there! Aren't you
proud?
57.	     Final Battle: Guard Daos HP: 6000+
58.	Recommended Level: 50+
59.	Weakness: Thunder?
60.	This battle is very long and can be very tough. He will use confusing
spells a lot, so make sure you keep Jerin sane so she can cast Mirror. I
recommend casting Mirror on Jerin first so she won't be confused. Then cast
it on everyone else. If you don't have Shrieks to free your characters from
confusion, have a sane character attack them or hope another confused
character attacks them. Yes, it works. Even if everyone's sane and has
Mirror, you should still have Jerin use Mirror and nothing else. As
mentioned above, Mirror only lasts a few rounds, and you don't want Guard
Daos getting in that lucky thrust. If everyone loses mirror you can find
yourself in a very bad situation. I beat this guy my first time out, but it was
a surprise, as I did find myself in one of those situations where all four
characters were confused. Anyway, have Wedge and Aguro attack, and
have Lufia use Thunder. If by chance you need to heal, do so with the Valor
spell. Guard Daos uses a variety of magics, but all can be rebounded on him
with Mirror. After immense punishment, he will be destroyed.
61.	  Note: The following information will spoil the ending of the game.
Read either if you are like me and can still find pleasure in beating a
game even if you know the ending already, or you have already beaten the
game. Well..Read if ya wanna.
62.	  After the battle with Guard Daos, Lufia tearfully reveals that she was
Erim long before she was Lufia. She then tells Wedge that as long as she
lives the Sinistrals will keep reviving. The music is the same tune as when
Selan died. She then commands Wedge to hold Dual Blade before him, which he
refuses to do. The music changes back to the final battle theme as Lufia
once again commands Wedge to destroy her! With obvious reluctance, Wedge
takes up the sword, which then flies toward Lufia. She vanishes and then
reappears sitting on the crystal bridge. There is some more talking, and
then, as if in a chilling playback of the Battle of Doom Island, the bridge
on which Lufia and Wedge stand begins to break! Lufia falls through the
collapsing fortress, but Aguro barely manages to pull Wedge free.
63.	  Then we switch to Frederia, where a lab assistant informs Raile that
Doom Island is out of control. We then find Flake, the Elder of Arus,
standing at the top of the tower of grieff. He talks with another old man,
saying that peace will be restored.
64.	  Then we switch to Elfrea, where Artea is relieved that his long life's
battle is finally over, and Maxim and Selan can finally rest in peace.
65.	  We switch then to the house east of Treck, where Guy lived. Ainia and
her uncle stand at Guy's grave. The Elder of Treck tells Guy's spirit that
he can now sleep peacefully, as the Sinistrals are gone, forever this time.
66.	  We switch back to the crumbling fortress, as the companions make a
daring escape abord Falcon. They land, and Wedge walks away from the
others. Jerin tries to call after him, but Aguro stops her, as there is
nothing she can do.
67.	  A year later, we find Aguro and Jerin in Lorbenia. Aguro leaves a
soldier in command of the new recruits and meets Jerin at the docks, where
there's some dialogue. It seems Aguro has some problems with Jerin's being
there..Could it be that he wants a girl?
68.	  We then switch to Wedge in Arus. He's been travelling the world for a
year now. He walks to that Priphea patch Lufia got excited in a year ago.
There he finds..Could it be?..Lufia? It's her all right, and the musical
theme for their reunion is quite good if you ask me. But Lufia has no
memory. Then Flake appears and tells Wedge what happened. Flake found Lufia
shortly after her fall from Doom Island. She has lost her powers and is now
an ordinary 17-year-old girl. Wedge tells Flake that he doesn't care about
Lufia's memory. As long as she's alive Wedge is happy. Memories are like
material possessions and can be remade. After some dialogue, Wedge enters
Flake's house and the credits role. Congrats! You have beaten Lufia and the
Fortress of Doom! The ending is a mixture of happy and sad, seeing as Lufia
had to lose her powers. But who cares? She's alive!
69.	      8: Revision History
70.	Version 1: Initial Release of this guide
71.	Version 2: Made some corrections, added this revision history and a
Hints and Tips section.
72.	Version 3: Updated Hints and Tips section, made more corrections, and
updated info on the walkthrough.
Version 4: Updated walkthrough a bit and also updated contact info.
Version 5: Updated info on walkthrough.
     9: Closing Comments
74.	  As I said above, this is one of my favorite games. The music's great,
the controls are easy, but the story is the best part. The theme of Lufia,
as you probably know, is love. It proves the fact that true friends will
always be there for you. Wedge was always there for Lufia and was willing
to stick by her even though her memory was gone. I once read a letter by
Yasunori Shiono, the music composer. This was a letter that came in the
liner notes of the Lufia/Estopolis soundtrack, which I do not have. I read
the letter on the internet. Anyway, he reveals that in the beginning, as
Lufia's music was the first music he composed on the SNES, he had to deal
with a great deal of confusion. He understood that Lufia's theme was love
and that people have different ways of expressing love, but he was not sure
how to go about incorporating that sentiment into his music in a satisfying
and enriching manner and without incorporating the opposites of love, hate,
anger and suffering. Well..as you can hear, he figured it all out. He does
however express his opinion that he did a much better job in Lufia II's musical
score than in Lufia I's. This isn't to say Lufia I had bad music, it did not.
It's just that there was more variety in II, and the love themes and sorrow
themes were much deeper.
75.	  If you have any comments, questions, constructive criticism and the
like, (and it must be constructive criticism or I won't take note of it),
feel free to E-mail me. Also, I will
gladly speak about other RPG's I've played, as I am a general all-around
RPG freak. Just don't mention Final Fantasy 8 around me. I was very disappointed
with that game. Anyway, enjoy this walkthrough and this great game!




