BREATH OF FIRE FAQ & WALKTHROUGH v1.00
BY  : Hellspawn
MAIL: avanrompaey@geocities.com
URL : http://www.geocities.com/TimesSquare/Lair/5837

CONTENTS
--------
1. Story
2. Characters
      2.1 Main Characters
      2.2 Support Characters
3. Walkthrough
4. Index of Items
      4.1 Common Items
      4.2 Scenario Items
5. Item Effects
6. Index of Equipment
      6.1 Weapons
      6.2 Armor
      6.3 Accessories
7. Index of Monsters
8. Index of Spells
9. Dragon Shrines
10. Gobi's Shop
11. Karn's Forms
12. Rod5 Sites
13. Dragon Marks
14. Dragon Stone Doors
15. General Hints

---------------------------------------------------------------------

1. STORY

When the Dragon Family was at the peak of its power, a goddess of desire 
appeared.
The goddess, Tyr, granted wishes. The Dragons fought each other for her power.
Tyr encouraged the fighting and watched the war between the Dragons escalate.
When the world was at the brink of destruction, a warrior stepped forward.
The warrior battled Tyr with his 7 companions and locked her using 6 keys.
These "goddess keys" were scattered throughout the world and hidden away.
The Light Dragons balanced the power of the family and peace reigned again.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

2. CHARACTERS

2.1 Main Characters
-------------------

HERO - He is a member of the Light Dragon family, but he hasn't developed his 
powers yet. He will embark on a quest to stop Zog from conquering the world. He 
is the only one who can fish for items.

NINA - Princess of Waylan. She will meet the Hero during the search for the 
Remedy. The Hero will rescue her from the clutches of the wizard and then she 
will join him. She can cast defensive and recovery spells.

BO - He can hunt if he is leading the party and can also walk through forests. 
He can cast minor offensive spells.
      Buffalo - Meat
      Bird - WMeat
      Deer - Antler
      White Deer - W-Ant

KARN - The world's greatest thief. Karn can open locked doors, disarm trapped 
chests and avoid hidden pits when leading the party. He can also learn morphing 
spells.

GOBI - He can morph into a big fish when he has the sphere and he is underwater. 
When underwater, he can cast some offensive spells.

OX - One of the metal smiths, Ox can break down weakened walls and rocks when 
leading the party. On the overall map, he can hit some trees to get nuts and 
fruits.

BLEU - The sorceress who imprisoned the goddess Tyr. She has excellent offensive 
spell casting ability.

MOGU - He joins the party after you save him from his dream. He can dig in the 
dragon marks to find special treasures

2.2 Support Characters
----------------------

Sr-1, Sr-2, Sr-3 - Winlan soldiers that will help Nina and the Hero defeat the 
wizard and get the Remedy.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

3. WALKTHROUGH

3.1 The Beginning
-----------------

CHESTS: 300 GP
DESCRIPTION: As soon as you wake up in the burning room, search the drawer to 
the right to find a V-Ptn. Then follow the old woman. Talk to everyone 
downstairs and you'll learn about SARA. You'll also learn that THE DARK DRAGON 
FAMILY is attacking other dragon families. ZOG, the Dark Dragon King wants to 
conquer the world by destroying THE LIGHT DRAGONS. Then Sara will turn everybody 
to stone to protect them. Then she will fight against Jade. Jade will inform her 
that they have the GODDESS KEYS, and the fight will end. After reading the 
story, you'll return to normal. Then the old woman will tell you about the myth 
of THE WARRIOR OF THE DRAGON. Then open the chest to receive 300 GP. Exit the 
house and explore the ruined village.

3.2 Drogen
----------

DESCRIPTION: Explore the village and buy equipment if you want. When you're 
finished, exit the village and go west. Cross the bridge and continue north. 
Then turn east. Continue east until you find a big city. Enter the city

3.3 Camlon
----------

CHESTS: 70 GP (x2), Herb (x5), BronzSD, Gauntlet, SuedeCP, Visor, Antdt (x2), 
150 GP
BOSS: Frog
DESCRIPTION: Talk to the citizens and learn that the city, NANAI, is occupied by 
the Dark Dragons. Go north into the castle. Follow the corridor and you'll reach 
a clean fountain. Drink from it to replenish your HP. Then continue north. Open 
the nearby chests and go down the stairs. Open the stone door and get the 
chests. Do the same in all floors. You'll have to fight a Frog in the end. To 
defeat it, just use your normal sword attack. Have some Herbs ready because you 
will need them. The Frog uses three different attacks. It can spit you some kind 
of acid, it can hit you with its tongue (weakest attack) or it can jump onto you 
(strongest attack). It can also recover some HP when its about to die. When you 
take out all its HPs, it will regain some, so you'll have to kill it twice. 
After you kill the Frog, get the last two chests. Then exit the castle. The King 
will talk to you and you'll learn about the QUAKE CONTROL, who is in the Dark 
Dragon's hands. They will ask you to find it and disable it so the quakes stop. 
Exit the castle and head northwest. Follow the path until you reach a big city. 
That's Nanai. You have to enter at night or you'll be kicked out by the guards.

3.4 Nanai
---------

CHESTS: 150 GP (x2), Herb (x2) --> City
Antdt, 650 GP, B-Stn, ArmPad, 70 GP, F-Stn, Cure --> Cave
BOSS: Knight
DESCRIPTION: Sneak into the city at night and stay as far as you can from the 
guards. If they catch you, you'll have to start over. Go into the inn and search 
the drawer to find a S-Ptn. Then enter the northern house far from the guard and 
open the chests. You can buy weapons in the shop to the east. Then go into the 
northeastern house and open the chests. Finally, go into the big building in the 
center of the city. Open the metal door and climb down the stairs. You'll end up 
in an underground cave. Cross the bridge to the east and open the chest. Explore 
the cave thoroughly and open all the chests. Then take the stairs leading down 
to reach the second level of the cave. Explore the second level and you'll find 
the stairs leading to the Quake Control. You'll have to fight a Knight to 
recover the machine. Use your sword and Herbs when needed. The Knight uses a 
powerful sword attack and casts T. Bolt. You'll have a hard time beating him. 
Use the B-Stn and the F-Stn if you have them. He can also cast Recover when low 
on HPs. Again, after you take out all of his HPs, he will still live, so you'll 
have to give him a couple of extra blows to kill him. After you kill him, take 
the key from the stone mechanism (E-Key). Step into the teleporter on the right. 
Nanai will be destroyed. Then you'll return to the king. They tell you to travel 
east to WINLAN. Go back to where Nanai was and continue east. Follow the path 
until you reach a city and a cave nearby. Go into the city.

3.5 Winlan
----------

CHESTS: SuedeSH, SuedeHT, Herb (x4), Antdt (x2)
DESCRIPTION: Explore the village and but supplies if you need to. Search the 
drawer in the eastern house to find a V-Ptn. Then go north into the palace. Talk 
to the guards there to learn about the land of ROMERO. Talk to the lady blocking 
the door and she will talk with the princess. You'll learn the king was poisoned 
and they need the REMEDY to cure him. Now you control Nina, the princess. Talk 
to the people next to the king to learn about the wizard of KARMA. Go to the 
first floor and open all the chests. Go down into the basement and pick the 
treasure chests. Then exit the castle. Exit the village and go into the western 
cave.

3.6 Cave West of Winlan
-----------------------

CHESTS: Cure, SuedeGN, 150 GP, 70 GP, I-Ore, Herb (x2), B-Stn, C-Stn
DESCRIPTION: Talk to the soldiers and allow them to join the party. Go down the 
stairs and open the chest. Continue north through the bridge. You'll eventually 
reach the stairs leading up. Take them and go north, then turn west. Open the 
chest and climb the stairs in the right. You'll end up in another region of the 
map. Go west and enter the town.

3.7 Romero
----------

CHESTS: Herb, WtrJr --> After killing the Wizard
Antdt, Herb, Tablet, Cure, 900 GP --> After taking care of the zombies
DESCRIPTION: Talk to the guard in the door to learn the locations of KARMA and 
AGUA. Search the drawer inside the inn to find a L-Ptn. Go into the house with 
the hole and jump into it. Push the pots and make your way to the barrel. Search 
it to find a Map. Search the drawer in the second floor of the northeastern 
house to find a ProtnB. When you're finished, exit the village and head west. 
You'll reach a forest.

3.8 Forest West of Romero
-------------------------

CHESTS: Herb, Bandage, 150 GP, W-Ptn, Herb
DESCRIPTION: As soon as you enter, go north and open the chest. Then go 
southwest to find another chest. Go northwest and open a chest containing 150 
GPs. There's a hidden chest behind a lonely tree. Find it and open it to reveal 
a W-Ptn. After getting all the chests, head southwest to find the exit. Then go 
west into the towers.

3.9 Wizard's Tower
------------------

CHESTS: M-Drop (x2), Charm (x2), Herb (x3), Life2, Cure (x2), Rang
BOSSES: Morte, Mortea, Wizard
DESCRIPTION: As soon as you enter the tower, go north and drink the clear water 
to recover health. Then fight the Morte standing on the right. The Morte uses a 
powerful weapon attack. Just attack it with your three fighters and use Herbs or 
Nina's Cura spell when needed. Explore the first floor completely and pick up 
the chests. To explore all floors and get all chests, you have to use the 
different stairs on the levels. Later, you'll have to fight another mini-boss 
called Mortea. Use the same strategy as with Morte. Use the C-Stn if you have it 
to make things easier. Go up the stairs and cross the bridge. You'll be in the 
other tower. Explore it all then go down to the basement. There you'll encounter 
the wizard. He will fill the room with Xeon Gas that will drain your power. 
Fight the wizard. After a while of futile effort Nina will ask the soldiers to 
go and get some help. The wizard will then destroy you but one soldier will 
escape morphed into a bird. Dark Dragons will chase him but he will arrive at 
Winlan. They will ask the Hero to help them rescue Nina. Agree to help them. 
Exit Winlan and talk to the members of the rescue party. You'll reach the tower. 
The commander will help you get to the wizard, but you'll have to face him 
alone, for the Xeon gas is harmful for him. Go down into the basement and go to 
the far left. Open the chest. Then go to the center of the room and face the 
Wizad. The Wizard can use powerful spells such as T. Bolt or Freeze. Use the B-
Stn on him for 80 points of damage. He can also cast Petrify to increase his 
defense. After defeating him you'll obtain the Remedy. Then you'll escape to 
Winlan and go into the castle. Go and talk to the King. After Nina joins the 
party, go down to the basement and take the tunnel. Exit the tunnel and head 
southeast. There's a forest but you can't enter because of a tree. After a while 
of walking east, you'll find two cities separated by a dry river. Enter the left 
one. The city is called TANTAR.

3.10 Tantar
-----------

CHESTS: Herb, Key --> After recovering the water
DESCRIPTION: Explore the village and buy weapons and supplies if you need to. As 
always, check the drawer inside the inn for a Charm. Explore the houses and talk 
to the people to learn about TUNTAR. Talk to the blacksmith. He'll make you a 
SAW if you give him the I-Ore. Agree and receive the Saw. Go into the house in 
the center of the town and learn about the RING. Search the drawer in the second 
floor to receive a W-Ptn. Go back to the forest and use the Saw to chop down the 
tree blocking the entrance. Now go inside.

3.11 Forest of Despair
----------------------

CHESTS: Life, T-Drop (x2), Wrist, Herb --> Forest
T-Drop (x3), Life (x2), LongSD, Herb (x5), Life2, Acorn, WolfHT
BOSSES: Pog, General
DESCRIPTION: Explore the forest thoroughly but be careful with the monsters 
because they are really powerful. Open all the chests and then find the exit. To 
find the exit, go all the way northwest and then take the narrow passage leading 
east. You'll find a stone building. Go inside and kill the two guards. Then 
continue exploring the building. You'll have to kill two more guards to pass. 
Get the chests and go down the stairs. You'll have to kill three guards to reach 
the old man. If you let him lead you to the weapons you'll fall into a trap and 
will have to fight POG. Pog attacks you twice per turn. Once with each head. Use 
your sword and healing spells when needed to defeat it. B-Stn works well against 
it. After you defeat Pog, a man will save you. Then you'll have to fight the 
General. Use sword attacks and healing spells to kill him. Then, Bo will join 
the party. Exit the forest and go to the village east of Tantar.

3.12 Tuntar
-----------

DESCRIPTION: Explore the village and go to the house in the middle. Talk to the 
chief to learn that the stone robot to the north can move the rock that blocks 
the river. They tell you to look for the secret of the robot in a town near 
Romero called Agua. Search the drawer in  the second floor of the chief's house 
to find an Herb. Also search the drawer inside the inn to find a Cure. Exit 
Tuntar and go to Romero. Once you reach Romero, talk to everyone and the chief 
will ask you to get rid of the zombies in exchange for information about Agua. 
You'll learn about THE CLEANSING WATER that can save the soil. Now with Bo in 
your party, you can walk through the forests. Go into Romero and talk to 
everyone during the day. Then wait until night and talk to the old woman near 
the entrance. Then go into the hole next to the grave. Exit Romero and head 
southwest. Go into the cave surrounded by water.

3.13 Cave Southwest of Romero
-----------------------------

CHESTS: Herb (x3), NiceHT, F-Stn, T-Drop, BronzHT, Apple
DESCRIPTION: Explore the cave completely and open all the chests. Then go 
northwest. Then east, north and west to find the stairs leading down. Go to the 
lower level and fill the WtrJr with the Cleansing Water. You'll automatically 
appear in Romero. The soil will be purified and the zombies will disappear. Then 
the elder will inform you about Agua. Open the chests and talk to the people of 
Romero to learn about THE GODDESS, and THE KEY in Agua. Exit Romero and head 
northwest into the floating city. Now with the Tablet you can enter Agua.

3.14 Agua
---------

CHESTS: Apple, Acorn (x2), Life2, Herb (x2), SunHT, IronSH, ThiefCL, HairBand, 
Bracelet --> Before getting Ox
3000 GP, Life, SilverBR, Life2, FlameSH --> After getting Ox
BOSS: Wisp
DESCRIPTION: You have to complete a dungeon in order to reach the city of Agua. 
There are lots of chests, open them all and then find the stairs leading up. 
Explore all other floors thoroughly. In the last floor, there's a pillar with a 
purple ball onto it. Push it and Wisp will attack you. Use Bo's Fry spell and 
the E-Key. Have Nina cast healing spells when needed. Wisp uses two types of 
attack. One that damages all your party and one that damages one member. After 
you defeat it, search the pillar to find the KngKey. Go back to Tantar and head 
north. Find the Stone Robot and go inside.

3.15 Stone Robot
----------------

CHESTS: Herb, BronzHT, Acorn, Life2, Mrbl1
DESCRIPTION: Enter the robot through one of the legs. Then explore the inside 
opening all chests. You'll eventually find a general and two soldiers. Fight 
them and kill them. Then push the stone plaque and activate the robot. Now use 
the teleporters to open the remaining chests. Use the teleporters to go to the 
command room. Push the stone pillar and the robot will move. Using the robot's 
power you'll destroy the rock blocking the river. Now go back to Tantar and talk 
to the chief. He'll give you the key to the cave where the Ring is located. Go 
north into the cave next to where the Stone Robot is now standing.

3.16 Cave North of Tantar
-------------------------

CHESTS: W-Ptn
DESCRIPTION: Explore the passage and find the exit. You'll appear next to the 
cave containing the ring.

3.17 Ring Cave
--------------

CHESTS: Life, Life2, 2000 GP, Herb, Acorn, SkySH, Ring
BOSS: Gremlin
DESCRIPTION: Open the entrance door with the key and start exploring the cave. 
Jump into the waterfall and you'll end up in the area with the ring. Once you 
find the Ring, step onto the teleporter and it will take you back to the 
entrance. Go back to Tantar and go into the elder's house. Watch the marriage 
and then the elder will tell you that you can cross the river using the Stone 
Robot. Exit Tantar and you'll discover that the Stone Robot was stolen by the 
Dark Dragons. With it, they will destroy Tuntar. After this, enter the robot 
again and make your way to the top. Talk to the commander, who will reveal his 
true form... the Gremlin. He is quite difficult to kill. Use Fry spell, the E-
Key and healing spells when needed. After you kill it, the robot will jump into 
a volcano and lava will erupt. Now you can go south via the solidified lava. 
Cross the bridge to the south and enter the dragon shrine.

3.18 Dragon Shrine
------------------

CHESTS: Melon
BOSS: Talon
DESCRIPTION: Put the Hero as leader in your party and talk to the old man by the 
door. You'll be allowed to pass and complete the first stage in your training as 
a dragon warrior. You'll have to beat Talon to complete the test. Use the E-Key 
to defeat him. Then exit the shrine and enter the cave to the southwest. Find 
the exit. After you exit the cave go south into the port city.

3.19 Auria
----------

CHESTS: Life (x2), W-Ant, Mrbl1, Acorn, Antdt, Cure (x2), G-Tiara
DESCRIPTION: You'll be jailed as soon as you enter the city. Search the square 
with water in the upper right corner to find the PrisnCL. Talk to the man in the 
bed. Answer yes when he asks if you want him to help you. Once you're out, don't 
go close to the guards or they will arrest you again. First, go inside the 
building with the fish sign above it. Buy some Vitamins in the item shop. Then 
go to the second floor and give the vitamins to the man with the hiccups. He'll 
reward you with 5000 GP. Then move the drawer in the wall and go through the 
passage. Push the white pot and search the floor under it to find a Life2. Then 
go inside the lower left big house and search the drawer to find a S-Ptn. Then 
open the chest. Go upstairs and search the drawer to find a Cure. Then open the 
chest there. Explore the drawers in the lower right house to find a V-Ptn and 
2000 GP. Go to the upper left house and talk to the woman there. She'll ask you 
to help her son who went to the forest. Search the drawers in that house to find 
the SmartRG and a Life. Then go to the upper right house and search the drawers 
to find a L-Ptn and Mrbl3. Talk to the old man upstairs with Nina leading the 
party and heal his back ache. He'll give you 20000 GP. Exit Auria and go back to 
the cave to the north. Find the exit and go to the clear in the forest. Talk to 
the fairies. Then go to the clear between flowers to find the cursed man. Talk 
to the man. Then go back to Auria and talk to the woman who asked you to find 
the man. She'll give you 20000 GP. When you're done, go into the northern house. 
Talk to the rich man and agree to help him. He'll ask you to save his daughter. 
Go upstairs and search the drawer to find 2000 GP. Buy a G-Bar in the item shop 
if you have the money. You must buy this item sooner or later. When you have it, 
exit Auria and go into the cave to the east.

3.20 Cave Leading to Bleak
--------------------------

CHESTS: Cure, ShellHT --> Before getting Karn and Ox
Dart, G-Bar --> After getting Karn
L-Ptn, A-Ptn --> After getting Ox
DESCRIPTION: Explore the cave and open the chests. There are some doors that you 
can't open until you have Karn in your party. When you exit the cave, go into 
the town to the east.

3.21 Bleak
----------

CHESTS: Herb (x4), Life, W-Ant
DESCRIPTION: If you stay at the inn, make sure you have the Pouch or the 
innkeeper will steal money from you. If you do have the pouch, you'll catch him 
when trying to rob you and he'll pay you 5000 GP. Go into the house to the east 
and push the barrel. Search the floor under it to find a Life2. Go to the 
northern house and trade the G-Bar for the Icicle. Exit Bleak and go into the 
cave to the west. You'll end up in the desert. Use the Icicle to cool the air. 
Head south and you'll find Arad.

3.22 Arad
---------

CHESTS: Fife --> After killing the SandWorm
BOSS: SandWorm
DESCRIPTION: There's nothing important in Arad. Just go and talk to the mayor. 
Agree to kill the worm. Then, exit the mayor's hut and go to the northeastern 
part of town. Fight the SandWorm there. Use normal attacks and healing spells 
when necessary. Then, the mayor will give you the Fife. Go outside and step onto 
the stone plate by the Krypt entrance. Use the Fife to make a bridge appear.

3.23 The Krypt
--------------

CHESTS: Herb (x3), Life (x2), DreamRG, Dagger, IronSH, HeadGear, IcyHT, Cure, 
Antdt, SkullHT (x2), HuntCL
BOSS: EyeSpy
DESCRIPTION: Many of the chests in the Krypt are trapped. You can wait until you 
get Karn to open the chests. Explore the Krypt, find the stairs leading down and 
then you'll have to fight EyeSpy. Use spells for massive damage. When he loses 
all his eyes, he will begin using Thunder Bolts on your party. Have healing 
spells ready. After you defeat him, go down the stairs and open the chests. When 
you open the blue chest a trap will trigger. Luckily, Karn will arrive to save 
you. After talking a bit, he will join you and ask you to find a certain book 
from the tomb. Go down the stairs. Put Karn as leader of your party and open all 
the locked doors. Go down the stairs and search all the coffins. Kain will gain 
confidence. Exit the Krypt and go back to Bleak. Enter the tower west of Bleak.

3.24 Tower of Darkness
----------------------

CHESTS: 2000 GP (x2), B-Stn, Life, Life2, Herb, Cure, HornHT, Turban, Mirror
BOSS: Cloud
DESCRIPTION: When inside the Tower of Darkness, use the stairs to explore all 
the floors and open all treasure chests. Climb to the top and fight the Cloud. 
Use powerful spells and attacks. Have healing spells ready. Cloud will attack 
you with spells. When he is low on HP, it will use Devistat, a spell that does 
45 points of damage on all members of your party. Use Hero's Thunder Dragon 
magic to make things easier. After you defeat it push the pillar to receive the 
DkKey. Then go down and talk to the old man. He'll give you the Mirror. Exit the 
tower and go back to Auria. Go to the rich man's house and go into the basement. 
Open the doors with Karn. Talk to the girl. Then go back and talk to the rich 
man. You'll use the Mirror to make Ross realize that giving up the LtKey won't 
help. Go down again and talk to the girl. Agree to help them fight the Dark 
Dragons. Now you can open the chests and enter the Tower of Light.

3.25 Tower of Light
-------------------

CHESTS: Herb (x5), Dart, B-Stn, MetalSH, F-Stn
DESCRIPTION: Enter the Light Tower through the basement in the rich man's house. 
Climb to the top and push the pillar to receive the LtKey. Go to the docks and 
fight the Knight and the Archer. Defeat them and they will destroy the ship. Now 
you'll need to move a big rock that is blocking a cave to the north to be able 
to continue. Gobi will trade a G-Bar for the GnPwdr to blast the rock. Exit 
Auria and go north into the cave. Set the explosives and blast the rocks. Now go 
on and find the exit. You'll be attacked by two SpearMan. Defeat them and 
continue west. Enter the Dark Dragon's ship.

3.26 Dark Dragon's Ship
-----------------------

CHESTS: Herb (x2), Acorn (x2)
BOSS: Squid, Octo
DESCRIPTION: Kill the Archer that attacks you as soon as you enter. Go down the 
stairs and kill the Archer and SpearMan. Climb the stairs up and fight Squid. 
Hero's Thunder Dragon works excellent against it. Search the drawer to find a V-
Ptn. Climb down the stairs. Open the chests. Then return to Auria and set sail. 
After a while you'll be attacked again. You'll have to fight two Archers and a 
SpearMan first. Then you'll have to fight three more Archers. Finally, you'll 
have to fight two Archers and then Octo. Use the same strategy you used against 
Squid. When you defeat it, the ship will sink and you'll appear in an island.

3.27 Prima
----------

CHESTS: MystSF, Sphere --> After defeating the Dark Dragons
DESCRIPTION: When you awake in the deserted island, Gobi will tell you that 
Prima is near that location, and that you need the Gills in order to reach it. 
At this point, you'll control Gobi in a quest to find the Gills. Go underwater 
and head west. You'll find the city of Prima. Search the drawer inside the inn 
to find the TideHT. Go to the Guild and ask for the Gills. They will tell you to 
go to Gant. Exit Prima and go south until you reach a beach. Go back to the 
surface and walk south. Then follow the path until you reach Gant.

3.28 Gant
---------

CHESTS: Goods
BOSS: Morteo
DESCRIPTION: Go to the northern house and talk to the man there. You'll learn 
that the Dark Dragons attacked Gant and took away all the young men. He'll ask 
you to deliver Goods to Prima. Agree and go upstairs. Check the drawer to find 
an A-Ptn. Explore the rest of the city and check the drawers in the houses to 
find a L-Ptn and the HrGlas. Exit Gant and go back to Prima. Take the Goods to 
the guild and you'll receive the Gills. Then, a survivor of a Dark Dragon attack 
will arrive. There's a ghost that wants to take him to the Nether World. Gobi 
knows how to kill the ghost. Say no to the guild owner until he offers 6000 GP. 
Then go back to the surface where the party is. Now that you have the Gills, you 
can breathe underwater. Go back to Prima and fight the ghost. Use normal attacks 
or spells against Morteo. It's not so difficult to kill. After you defeat it, Ox 
will join your party. Now that you have Ox with you, you can go back to Agua and 
break the cracked wall to get the treasure. You can also go back to the cave 
east of Auria. Use Karn to open the locked doors and get the treasures and use 
Ox to break down the weakened walls and open the chests. After getting these 
treasures, return to The Krypt and get the B-Rang using Ox. Then go back to 
Gant. From there, walk east until you find a small hut.

3.29 Hermit's Hut
-----------------

DESCRIPTION: Enter the hut and talk to the Hermit. He will identify the B-Rang 
and tell you that it may be repaired in Gant. But first you have to save the 
people of Gant. Go back to Prima. From Prima, walk northwest. Go back to the 
surface and walk south. You'll find the Dark Dragon's fortress.

3.30 Dark Dragon's Fortress
---------------------------

CHESTS: GiantHR, EchoHT, Herb (x2), MetalSH, Life
BOSSES: Toad, GrimFowl
DESCRIPTION: Use Ox to break through the walls and to get the chests. Climb up 
the stairs and open the chest. Fight the LancerX. You can choose not to fight 
the LancerX if you want. Explore the dungeon completely and find the stairs 
leading down. You'll have to fight Toad to free the Gant people. Use Dragon ad 
healing spells. After you defeat it, free the Gant people and they will tell you 
that the rest of the prisoners along with the weapon were taken to Nabal. Now go 
back to Gant and repair the B-Rang in the northern house. There's a secret 
passage in the same house. Go to the eastern room and push one of the drawers. A 
secret passage will be revealed. Go through it and smash the rocks with Ox. Talk 
to the old man with Karn and he will teach him the Shin spell. Go back to the 
fortress and cross it. Walk north and you'll reach a forest filled with 
GrimFowl. Take the egg and a GrimFowl will attack you. Defeat it and pick up the 
Egg. Then exit the forest and walk north into Nabal. Throw the Egg there and the 
GrimFowl will distract the guards. Go inside Nabal.

3.31 Nabal
----------

CHESTS: MagicRG, Cure
DESCRIPTION: Go to the eastern part and push the pots. Search the floor under 
them to find a SkullRG and a Life2. Then go down the stairs. Go south and break 
down the wall. You'll find the General, but he will leave while you are attacked 
by his henchmen. You'll have to fight SlimeX. They are quite powerful, you'll 
have to use your best spells and attacks to defeat them. Then, the General will 
set sail to destroy Prima. You'll automatically travel there. Go upstairs and 
talk to the sleeping man. Search the bed to receive the Statue. Then go back to 
Nabal to pick up the treasure. Search the lower left corner of the dock to find 
the Clog. Now that you have the Statue go back to Arad. North of Arad, you'll 
find a small moving village.

3.32 Wisdon
-----------

CHESTS: Herb (x4), ProSH (x2), Life2, Life (x2), OldSP, SilverBR, RageHR, 
ChainML
BOSSES: Wisp, Cloud, Myst
DESCRIPTION: Talk to the ghosts in the village to learn about the sorceress. 
Then go down the stairs leading to the dungeon. Go north and turn west when you 
reach the intersection. Use Ox to break down the walls and open the chests. Do 
the same for the right way. Then go back to the intersection and head north. 
Explore the dungeon getting all the treasure. When you exit the dungeon go 
inside the castle. Drink from the fountain and go up the stairs. Talk to the 
ghosts and fight them. Wisp will attack you first. You've fought him before. 
Just use the same strategy. You'll then have to fight Cloud. Finally, you'll 
have to defeat Myst. After defeating the three ghosts the sorceress will awake. 
She will give you the OldEgg and tell you to throw it into a volcano.

3.33 Underwater Volcano
-----------------------

CHESTS: SharpBW, 3000 GP, Herb, PowerDR, 2000 GP, M-Drop
BOSS: Pincher
DESCRIPTION: Go back to Prima and walk north. Enter the cave beneath the 
volcano. As soon as you enter go east and open the chest. Explore the first 
floor and the find the stairs going up. You'll find the lava in the third level. 
Throw the OldEgg there and it will hatch. Then, you'll be automatically 
teleported to Winlan, where Bleu will join your party. Then, you'll appear back 
in Prima waiting for the Dark Dragons to make their move. When they do, the 
Typhoon Bug will appear and sink their ships. Then, you'll be underwater again. 
Walk a little bit north and fight the Dark Dragon leader, Pincher. After you 
defeat it, you'll learn more about the story, Zog and Jade. When you can move 
again, go back into Prima and go to the guild. The guild master will give you 
the Sphere. Now with the Sphere you can cross the chasm underwater. Cross it and 
go northwest until you find a beach. Go back to the surface and walk northeast 
until you reach Gust.

3.34 Gust
---------

DESCRIPTION: Push the barrels and the block in one of the houses and you'll fall 
into a hole. Then push the barrels in the correct order and have Karn talk to 
the old man there. He will teach Karn the second spell, Debo. Search the drawer 
inside the inn to find the Sash. Then exit Gust via the northern exit. Keep 
going north and you'll reach Cort's Laboratory.

3.35 Cort's Laboratory
----------------------

CHESTS: Herb (x2), Cure2, L-Ptn, Rod4, M-Cura
BOSSES: K-Roach, RugaX, FlowerX, HornToad 
DESCRIPTION: Cort's Flower turned everyone insane in Gust. Enter through the 
steel door. The chests are guarded by Rogue. Defeat him to obtain the treasure. 
Climb the stairs leading up. Once in the second floor, Cort will appear and 
shrink your party with a new formula. Find and enter the mouse hole in the 
northern wall. Find the mouse village and rest at the inn if you want. Then go 
north and fight the three K-Roach. Defeat them and return to the mouse village. 
They will give you the M-Cura to revert the effects of the potion. You'll return 
to normal. Then take the stairs leading down. Use the floating platforms to 
reach Cort. You'll then have to fight RugaX. RugaX is in fact Nicholie 
transformed by the Flower, but he's wounded. You'll need the Oil to cure him. To 
find the Oil, first go into the cave in Gust. Kill the G-Fly. After you kill it, 
take its corpse. Exit Gust and go into the sea. Walk southeast and you'll find a 
beach. Go back to the surface and enter the cave nearby. Talk to the frogs. 
Exchange the G-Fly for the Oil. Go back to Gust with the Oil and cure Nicholie. 
Go north to the Laboratory and fight the FlowerX. Defeat it and go back to Gust. 
Go to the Flute player's house and search under the bed to find the Maestro. 
Then go to Nicholie's house. You'll have to fight RugaX again. Then, Nicholie 
will be back to normal and will fix the bridge. Cross the bridge and Cort will 
attack you as the HornToad. Kill him and cross the bridge. Travel west to 
Gramor, the home of the Mole people.

3.36 Gramor
-----------

DESCRIPTION: You'll learn that Mogu was put in coma by a Dark Dragon's spell. 
Agree to get the item from Tunlan and you'll receive the Cowl. Now, exit Gramor 
and go back into the sea through the beach near Gust. Go south from the beach 
until you find another beach leading to a small island with a city on it. Enter 
the city.

3.35 Tunlan
-----------

CHESTS: Bolster, Melon (x2), M-Drop
DESCRIPTION: Go into the northern house and turn right. Climb up the stairs. 
Then you'll reach a room with a locked door and four statues. Take the left 
narrow corridor and a statue will push you into a hole. Once inside the hole, 
push the lower right box and search the ground under it to find the Rod5. You'll 
need this in order to get some important items. Then talk to the old woman and 
princess. Exit Tunlan and wait for the night (or use the DkKey) and return to 
the palace. Go into the princess room via a crack in the wall. Look at the marks 
on her back while she takes a bath. Blue, red and white from left to right. Go 
to the safe and try to open it. You'll watch a little scene and the Dark Dragons 
general Cerl will take the TmKey. After waking up return to the safe and pick 
the treasure. Before returning to Gramor, buy some fishing bait and equip your 
hero with the Rod5. Then teleport to Romero. From there, walk west. After a 
while you'll come across a well. Fish there to receive the DragonSD. Then go the 
Dark Dragon fortress where the Gant people were held prisoner and cross it. Once 
you're in the other side walk west. Follow the path and you'll find the second 
Dragon Shrine.

3.36 Dragon Shrine
------------------

CHESTS: Mrbl2
BOSS: Bain
DESCRIPTION: Once you have the DragonSD you can enter the second shrine. Battle 
and defeat Bain to receive Ice, Fire, Bolt and Gold Dragon spells. Now return to 
Gramor with the Bolster. Enter Mogu's Dream.

3.37 Mogu's Dream
-----------------

DESCRIPTION: Exit the village and go east then north until you find the tower. 
Enter and explore it. Find Mothro and fight it. You can't hurt him yet, so run 
away. Notice that green plates make walls disappear and red ones make them 
reappear. Exit the tower and go back to the village. Someone will have repaired 
the bridge leading south. Cross it and enter the cave.

3.38 Poisonous Cave
-------------------

CHESTS: LightSH, Life, HeadGear
BOSS: Mothro
DESCRIPTION: Make your way through the poisonous gas and reach Courage. Unite 
him with the other attributes and Mogu will join your party. Go back to the 
tower where you'll have to climb to the top. There, you'll fight Mothro. Defeat 
it and the dream will end. Exit Gramor and go south. Use Mogu to dig in the 
strange looking tree and find the Root. Now you can dig in the dragon marks to 
find treasure. Dig in the mark northeast of Camlon to find Karn's Doof spell. 
Then go to Bleak and have Karn lead the party while transformed in Doof. Move 
the heavy cabinet in one of the houses to find Karn's Puka spell. Also, move the 
other cabinet and search the floor under it to find the ClearCL. With Puka, you 
can open the dragon marked stone doors. Go back to Gramor and enter the cave to 
the south. Find the exit and enter the village to the west.

3.39 Spring
-----------

DESCRIPTION: Search the drawers in one of the houses to find an Herb. Then go 
into the ice and head south. Go south until you reach the tower. Dig in the 
Dragon Mark to find the entrance.

3.40 Spyre
----------

CHESTS: Cure2, Shell, A-Ptn, FlameAR, WorldAR
DESCRIPTION: Explore the first levels of the Spyre and open all the chests. 
Reach the top and push the pillar. Mote will appear and send you into the dream 
world again. Exit the village and go into the cave to the north.

3.41 Dream World Cave
---------------------

CHESTS: Cure, JadeBW, L-Ptn, Trident, Smoke, CursedHT, FaceMask
BOSS: Mote
DESCRIPTION: Explore the first floors and you'll find Mote's conscience. 
Continue north and then up the stairs. You'll reach an area with recovery water 
and a save spot. Go north through the narrow corridor. When you reach the maze 
that spins when you touch the pressure plates, remember that the way you are 
facing after the spin is the way you were going before the spin. When you reach 
the room with the damaging plates, look for hidden pits to access the correct 
stairs. Then, you'll reach a room with lots of stairs. Take the lower right one 
and you'll reach Mote. Fight Mote for a while. At first, you can't hurt him, but 
then his conscience will appear and you can kill him. Mote can be resistant to 
magic or resistant to attacks. If he is diffused, he is resistant to magic, if 
he is sharpened, he is resistant to attacks. If you hit him with magic, he will 
become diffused and if you hit him with attacks, he will sharpen. Alternate 
magic with melee attacks to defeat him. Once he's dead, the dream will end and 
you can obtain the SkyKey by searching the pillar. Then push the stone plaque 
next to the pillar to restore the weather in Spring. Go back there. Go into the 
cave in the waterfall and find the exit. Then walk south until you reach Carmen.

3.42 Carmen
-----------

DESCRIPTION: You'll learn that time was stopped in Carmen. All are paralyzed 
except for a man. There's a barrel in the second floor of the upper right house. 
Search the ground under it to find a W-Ant. Exit Carmen and go to the tower to 
the east.

3.43 Tock
---------

CHESTS: Life, EvilCN, IcyAR, Cure, G-Tiara, Life2, GuardSH, AgileHT, WolfSkin
BOSS: Cerl
DESCRIPTION: Enter Tock and use the warp arrows to reach the top. When you reach 
it, Cerl will warp you out. Go back to Carmen. Talk to everyone and then go back 
to Tock. Fight Cerl. She'll warp you out once more. Go back to Carmen. Talk to 
the others and then go south to the big tree. Hit it with Ox to get the Fruit. 
Go back to Cerl's castle. Enter the castle and go upstairs. Cerl will give you 
the key. Then Goda will appear and the castle along with Alan will disappear. 
Then you'll appear in Tock. Go to the top and Nina will place the TmKey in the 
machine. Carmen will return to normal but Nina will be lost in time and you'll 
be thrown near Tunlan.

3.44 Finding Nina
-----------------

DESCRIPTION: Nina has warped back in time and is now located in Tunlan. She has 
amnesia. Go to Carmen and talk to the doctor. The doctor will tell you to make a 
Tonic. The ingredients for the tonic are: P-Fish, Root, C-Nut and W-Ant. Then go 
to the northeastern part of the village and talk to the mysterious man. He will 
vanish. Search the spot where he was standing to find the Pass. To find the 
Root, dig with Mogu the area below a strange lonely plant south of Gramor. The 
W-Ant can be found by hunting a white deer. The C-Nut can be found by hitting 
any palm tree a couple of times. Finally, the P-Fish can be fished in the bridge 
to Scande. When you have all ingredients, take them to the doctor in Carmen and 
he'll give you the Tonic. Then return to Tunlan and cure Nina. Now, she can fly. 
Go northwest of Gust for the third set of Dragon spells

3.45 Dragon Shrine
------------------

CHESTS: Melon
BOSS: Avian
DESCRIPTION: Battle Avian to receive the Rudra spell. Then go back to the cave 
with the Cleansing Water and when you reach the water, dive into it. You'll find 
the entrance to the last Dragon Shrine and you'll learn Agni if you have all the 
Dragon Armor and have learned Rudra. Now, with the Pass you can enter Scande, 
which is located in the middle of the swamplands to the south of Carmen.

3.46 Scande
-----------

DESCRIPTION: Check the drawer inside the inn for an Herb. Talk to everyone and 
learn about the climber who climbed the tower. Now exit and go to Spring. Find 
the climber and he'll give you the B-Part. Take the broken parts to Gant, where 
they will repair them. Go back to Scande and put the parts in the switch next to 
the elevator. Climb the tower and talk to the mysterious man. He will tell you 
to seek the D-Hrt, a weapon that can destroy any dragon. The D-Hrt is located in 
Tunlan. Surprisingly, you'll discover that the D-Hrt is a song. A woman will 
give it to you in a bottle. Go back to Scande's Tower.

3.47 Scande's Tower
-------------------

CHESTS: Mrbl1, IcyCN, Glove, PowerHT, Cure
BOSS: Zog
DESCRIPTION: Explore all floors and find Zog at the top. Fight him and defeat 
him. Use the Agni spell to quickly kill him. The Sara will appear. The hero will 
give the goddess keys to Sara, and she will betray him by giving the keys to the 
mysterious man who is in fact Jade. Then the mole people will appear and help 
you escape. Exit Scande and go to Agua. Climb to the top where Jade will 
activate the Pagoda Towers. Teleport there using the device in Jade's room.

3.48 Pagoda Towers
------------------

CHESTS: PowerAR, Domino, AgileAR, FlameDR, TrapGrd, StoneHT
BOSS: Sara
DESCRIPTION: Step onto the pressure plates to reveal stairs. Climb up and you'll 
find Sara. She will attack you and you'll have to kill her. Then continue 
climbing and you'll find Jade. He will warp you out and resurrect the Obelisk.

3.49 Obelisk
------------

CHESTS: FlameHR
BOSS: Jade
DESCRIPTION: You cannot enter the Obelisk yet. First, go to Gramor and talk to 
the master digger. Learn about the I-Claw. To find it, fly to an island 
southwest of Tantar. Talk to the old woman by the door. She would like to talk 
to a weapons collector. Then fly far south into the hermit's house and he'll 
give you the List. Take the List to the old woman. She'll give you an 
unidentified weapon. Take it to the old man. Go back and forth a couple more 
times and you'll receive the I-Claw. Go back to Gramor and talk to the master 
digger with Mogu leading the party. You'll learn how to use the I-Claw. Now go 
and enter the Obelisk that is located where Scande was. Use the floating 
platforms to advance. Find Goda and kill him. Then you'll reach a tricky area. 
Although the rooms look the same, they are not. Find Jade and kill him once and 
for all. After you kill Jade go down the elevator and meet Tyr, the Goddess of 
Destruction.

3.50 Tyr, the Final Battle
--------------------------

BOSS: Goddess
DESCRIPTION: Once you meet Tyr, ask for a wish to restore HP and AP. Then say no 
and you'll fight. After a while, you'll talk again and Sara will appear and tell 
you to use Agni. If you don't use the Agni spell, Tyr will not show her true 
form and you'll get the BAD ENDING. If you use the Agni spell, she will show her 
true form. Defeat her this way and win the game with the GOOD ENDING. 
Congratulations, enjoy the ending.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

4. INDEX OF ITEMS

4.1 Common Items
----------------

ITEM NAME    DESCRIPTION
=========    ===========

A-Ptn        Your Agility will increase
Acorn        This item will recover AP
Antdt        This works as an antidote for poison
Antler       This works as an antidote for poison
Apple        This item recovers some HP
B-Stn        You can use this item during a battle (Bolt)
C-Stn        You can use this item during a battle (Cold)
Charm        You'll return to normal
Cure         This item recovers some HP
Cure2        This item will recover the HP for all party members
F-Stn        You can use this item during a battle (Fire)
Herb         This item recovers some HP
L-Ptn        Your Luck will increase
Life         This will put you back into fighting shape
Life2        Everything will return to normal
M-Drop       The party will return to normal and the members will recover all HP
Mackrl       This works as an antidote for poison
Meat         This item will recover the HP for all party members
Melon        This item recovers some HP
Mrbl1        This will produce one perfect hit
Mrbl3        You can travel while avoiding enemies with this item
ProtnA       Your Attack Power will increase temporarily when you use this item
ProtnB       You can use this item during a battle
S-Ptn        Your strength will increase
T-Drop       This item changes Zombies back to normal
Tuna         With this, you will return to normal and recover your HP
V-Ptn        Your Vigor will increase
W-Ant        This item will recover AP
W-Ptn        Your Wisdom will increase
WMeat        This item will recover the HP for all party members

4.2 Scenario Items
------------------

ITEM NAME    DESCRIPTION
=========    ===========

Bolster      This will allow you to creep into people's dreams
Book         The secret techniques of the great thief are recorded in this Book
Cowl         This item will help you understand any language
D-Hrt        This is a legendary weapon
DkKey        This has a connection to the goddess, Tyr 
E-Key        This has a connection to the goddess, Tyr
Egg          This is the egg of a GrimFowl
Fife         This item reveals hidden bridges
Fruit        This is a strange fruit
G-Bar        This is pure gold
Gills        This will allow you to breath in water
GnPwdr       You can use the GnPwdr to blast the blocking boulder
Goods        The goods from Gant are in crates
HrGlas       This item switches night and day
I-Ore        A blacksmith would appreciate this ore
Icicle       This item cools the surrounding area
Key          This key will open the cave
KngKey       With this key, you can operate the Stone Robot
List         There are many weapons listed
LtKey        This has a connection to the goddess, Tyr
Maestro      This melody communicates with your heart
Map          Push the Start Button to see the world
Mirror       This Mirror allows you to see the world of spirits
Oil          This is an ingredient for a tonic
OldEgg       This is an ancient egg
P-Fish       This is an ingredient for a tonic
Parts        This is to be used in Scande Tower
Pass         You can enter Scande
Pouch        The Pouch is secured by a string
Ring         This is a symbol of strength and courage
Root         This is an ingredient for a tonic
SkyKey       This has a connection to the goddess, Tyr 
Sphere       You've got to become a big fish
Statue       With this statue, you can enter Wisdon
Tablet       The secret password to enter Agua is written here
TmKey        This has a connection to the goddess, Tyr 
Tonic        This is medicine
WtrJr        The mysterious power of this jar absorbs a great amount of water

---------------------------------------------------------------------

5. ITEM EFFECTS

ITEM                 EFFECT
====                 ======

DkKey                Turns day into night
E-Key (Earth Key)    3.5 spell (30 damage)
HrGlas               Advances time 12 hours
IcyCN                Chill spell (100 damage)
LtKey                Turns night into day
Trident              LStorm spell (95 damage)
WtrJr'               Restores all HP and AP for all members (one use)

---------------------------------------------------------------------

6. INDEX OF EQUIPMENT

6.1 Weapons

ITEM NAME    AP    WGT    TYPE        WHO
=========    ==    ===    ====        ===

B-Rang       60    2      One Handed  He
BroadSD      34    5      One Handed  He
BronzBW      14    2      Two Handed  Bo
BronzRP      7     2      One Handed  Ni
BronzSD      12    3      One Handed  He
Cane         8     2      One Handed  Bl
Club         30    6      One Handed  Ox
Dagger       32    2      One Handed  Ka
Dart         46    2      One Handed  Ka
DigCW        42    2      Two Handed  Mo
Dirk         5     1      One Handed  He
DragonSD     110   20     One Handed  He
EvilCN       20    6      One Handed  Bl
EvilRP       55    7      One Handed  Ni
FlameDR      74    7      One Handed  Ka
FlameHR      120   8      Two Handed  Ox
FlameSD      122   10     One Handed  He
GiantHR      60    12     Two Handed  Ox
HeroBW       220   8      Two Handed  Bo
HeroSP       56    4      One Handed  Go
IcyCN        30    10     One Handed  Bl
IcyCW        88    3      Two Handed  Mo
IronCW       74    3      Two Handed  Mo
IronHR       45    8      One Handed  Ox
IronRP       14    5      One Handed  Ni
JadeBW       80    8      Two Handed  Bo
Javelin      34    3      One Handed  Go
LightRP      10    2      One Handed  Ni
LongBW       28    5      Two Handed  Bo
LongSD       26    4      One Handed  He
LoyalRP      64    6      One Handed  Ni
MoonBW       66    1      Two Handed  Bo
MystCW       120   1      One Handed  Mo
OldSP        42    5      One Handed  Go
Pike         24    4      One Handed  Go
PoisonBW     42    6      Two Handed  Bo
PoisonRP     20    5      One Handed  He, Ni
Pole         12    2      One Handed  Go
PowerDR      66    7      One Handed  Ka
PowerSD      62    8      One Handed  He
RageHR       75    8      One Handed  Ox
Rang         18    2      One Handed  He
Rapier       10    4      One Handed  He
RustCW       60    4      Two Handed  Mo
Sabre        8     2      One Handed  He
Scythe       20    3      One Handed  He
SharpBW      54    7      One Handed  Bo
ShortBW      20    4      Two Handed  Bo
ShortRP      5     1      One Handed  Ni
Sickle       50    6      One Handed  He
Sleeper      100   8      One Handed  Go
SpineHR      120   15     One Handed  Ox
SteelBW      35    5      Two Handed  Bo
Stick        5     1      One Handed  Bl
ThrowDR      20    1      One Handed  Ka
Tri-BW       96    12     Two Handed  Bo
Tri-DR       54    6      One Hnaded  Ka
Trident      74    6      One Handed  Go
WingRP       32    4      One Handed  Ni
WingSD       96    8      One Handed  He

6.2 Armor

ITEM NAME    DP    WGT    TYPE        WHO
=========    ==    ===    ====        ===

AgileAR      92    0      Armr        Ni, Bl
AgileHT      42    1      Helm        All
AngleAR      76    3      Armr        Ni, Bl
ArmPad       8     2      Armr        He, Bo, Go
Bandage      5     1      Shld        All
Bandana      5     1      Helm        All
Bracelet     12    3      Shld        Ni, Bl
BronzAR      25    9      Armr        He, Bo, Ox, Go, Ka, Mo, Bl
BronzHT      10    4      Helm        He, Bo, Ox, Go, Ka, Mo
BronzSH      8     3      Shld        He, Bo, Ox, Go, Ka, Mo
ChainHT      25    8      Helm        All
ChainML      20    2      Armr        He, Bo, Ox
ClearCL      100   0      Armr        Ni, Bl
Cloth        1     1      Armr        All
CursedHT     62    20     Helm        All
DivingHT     32    6      Helm        Go
Domino       42    7      Helm        Ni, Bl
DragonAR     110   0      Armr        He
DragonHT     80    1      Helm        He
DragonSH     128   5      Shld        He
Dress        8     25     Armr        Ni, Bl
EchoHT       28    3      Helm
EvilRB       90    1      Armr        Ni, Blx
FaceMask     35    5      Helm        He, Ka, Mo
FlameAR      82    10     Armr        He, Mo
FlameSH      38    8      Shld        He, Ox, Mo
FlameSH      52    5      Shld        He, Bo, Ox, Go, Ka, Mo
G-Tiara      2     5      Helm        Ni, Bl
GaiaMask     36    4      Helm        He, Ox, Mo
Gauntlet     8     1      Shld        All
Glove        20    6      Shld        Bo
GoldHT       14    6      Helm        All
Gown         18    1      Helm        Ni, Bl
GuardSH      32    10     Shld        He, Bo, Ni, Ox, Go, Ka, Mo
HairBand     8     2      Helm        Ni, Bl
HeadGear     16    5      Helm        All
HornHT       37    6      Helm        He, Bo, Ox, Go, Ka, Mo
HuntCL       16    4      Armr        He, Bo, Ka
HuntGL       30    8      Shld        Bo
IcyAR        80    10     Armr        He, Bo, Ox
IcyHT        16    6      Helm        He, Bo, Ox
IcySH        30    5      Shld        All
IronHT       32    6      Helm        He, Bo, Ox, Go, Ka, Mo 
IronMask     30    7      Helm        Ox
IronML       27    9      Armr        He, Bo, Ox
IronSH       12    4      Shld        He, Bo, Ox, Go, Ka, Mo
IronSL       22    5      Shld        Go
LightCL      68    1      Armr        Ni, Bl
LightSH      36    10     Shld        Ni, Bl
LoveHT       64    10     Helm        Ni
MaskSH       65    8      Shld        All
MetalAR      39    10     Armr        He, Bo, Ox, Mo
MetalSH      16    5      Shld        He, Bo, Ox, Go, Ka, Mo
MetalSL      25    5      Shld        Go
MystSH       48    5      Shld        He, Bo, Ox, Mo
NiceHT       6     3      Helm        All
PlateAR      24    4      Armr        He, Bo, Ox, Go, Ka, Mo 
PowerAR      84    8      Armr        Ni, Bl
PowerHT      44    3      Helm        Go, Ka
PrisnCL      10    2      Armr        All
ProSH        32    5      Shld        He, Bo, Ox, Go, Ka, Mo
QuartzAR     50    9      Armr        All
RangerVT     40    8      Armr        He, Bo, Go
Robe         2     1      Armr        He, Bl
SageML       25    14     Armr
ShellHT      25    1      Helm        Go
SilkGN       15    4      Armr        Ni, Bl
SkullHT      25    10     Helm        All
SkySH        15    1      Shld        Ni
SpineCL      60    10     Armr        Go
StarSH       70    2      Shld        He, Bo, Ox, Go, Ka, Mo
StoneHT      48    16     Helm        Mo
StrawHT      2     1      Helm        All
SuedeAR      14    7      Armr        He, Bo, Ox, Go, Ka, Mo 
SuedeCP      5     4      Armr        He, Bl
SuedeGN      10    6      Armr        All
SuedeHT      3     6      Helm        All
SuedeRB      35    2      Armr        Ni, Bl
SuedeSH      2     1      Shld        All
SunHT        12    8      Helm        He, Bo, Ox, Go, Ka, Mo
ThiefCL      30    4      Armr
Tiara        10    2      Helm        Ni, Bl
TideHT       0     0      Helm        All
TrapGrd      40    4      Shld        Ka
Turban       11    1      Helm        All
Visor        6     2      Helm        He, Bo, Ox, Go, Ka, Mo 
WolfHT       12    4      Helm        Bo
WolfSkin     80    11     Armr        Bo
WoodSH       5     2      Shld        He, Bo, Ka
WoolRB       25    2      Armr        Ni, Bl
WorldAR      80    9      Armr        Ox, Mo
WorldML      75    11     Armr        He, Bo, Ox, Mo
Wrist        10    2      Shld        All

6.3 Accessories

ITEM NAME         WHO
=========         ===

DarkBR            Ka
DreamRG
LoveBR            Ni, Bl
MagicRG
MystSF            Ni, Bl
SilverBR
SkullRG
SmartRG
WindBR            Ni, Bl

---------------------------------------------------------------------

7. INDEX OF MONSTERS

NAME       EP     GP     TREASURE   ABILITY
====       ==     ==     ========   =======

Ameblob    90     67     None       None
Blaze      1290   540    None       Burnout
Blurb      60     30     None       None
Bulla      4      6      None       None
Buzzer     195    75     None       None
CactusX    540    405    None       None
Chimera    840    280    Acorn      None
Chopper    720    450    Herb       None
Crab       1530   540    None       None
CrawlerX   375    225    None       None
Creep      12     12     Herb       None
Creon      330    180    None       None
D.Flea     420    135    None       Silence
D.Knight   1170   450    None       Deflect, AgileUP
D.Rider    75     45     None       None 
Entity     2520   1200   None       Deflect
FireHead   2100   1500   None       Inferno, Petrify
Flea       4      6      Herb       None
Flower     2700   900    None       Paralyze 
G.Knight   150    300    None       None 
Ghoul      1050   450    T-Drop     None 
Gloom      7      18     Herb       T.Bolt
LancerX    750    510    Cure       None 
M.Scorp    960    360    None       None 
M.Slime    9999   9999   Herb       None
Mage       210    105    None       None 
Peril      1080   210    None       None
Phoenix    1080   540    Herb       None 
Slime      1      4      Herb       None
Soldier    1980   1080   None       None 
Sorcerer   900    300    None       None 
SpearMan   750    510    Cure       None
Stool      60     30     None       None 
WarHog     240    120    Meat       None
WarHogX    2040   720    None       Burnout
Warlock    1440   540    None       T.Bolt, Curse
Zard       90     67     None       None
Zombie     105    54     Mrbl3      RotAway
Zoom       1200   300    C-Stn      Blizzard, Blast, Shock

*NOTE*: Experience points (EP) and Gold pieces (GP) values are when you defeat 
the enemy in the first round. The longer you take, the less EP and GP you'll 
receive.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

8. INDEX OF SPELLS

NAME    AP  EFFECT
====    ==  ======

3.5     3   30 Damage on enemy party
5.5     8   50 Damage on enemy party
9.5 15  80 Damage on enemy party
Ag-Up   8   Increases Agility for one character
ATK-Up  15  Increases Attack for one character
Blast   18  Powerful Burst Damage on single enemy
BoltX   30  Devastating Shock Damage on single enemy
Bomb    5   Weak Burst Damage on single enemy
Boom    11  Medium Burst Damage on enemy party
Char    36  Potent Fire Damage on enemy party
Chill   12  Powerful Frost Damage on enemy party
Cold    5   Weak Frost Damage on single enemy
Cura    3   Recovers 50 HP for one character
Cura2   6   Recovers 100 HP for one character
Cura3   15  Recovers 250 HP for one character
Dig     5   Lets you escape from battle
Drain   2   Drains small amounts of AP from an enemy
Ebb     3   30 Damage on enemy party (Underwater only)
EbbX    5   50 Damage on enemy party (Underwater only)
Eco     8   70 Damage on enemy party (Underwater only)
EcoX    10  100 Damage on enemy party (Underwater only)
Exit    20  Instantly teleports you out of current dungeon
F-Ball  9   Powerful Fire Damage on single enemy
FireX   30  Devastating Fire Damage on single enemy
Flame   6   Medium Fire Damage on single enemy
Flare   3   Weak Fire Damage on single enemy
Flee    20  Lets you escape from battle
Fort    6   Increases defense for one character
FortX   14  Increases defense for entire party
Frost   9   Medium Frost Damage on single enemy
Fry     10  Medium Shock Damage on single enemy
Gale    24  Powerful Shock Damage on enemy party
Heal    5   Recovers status for one character
Hold    8   Paralyzes one enemy
Hush    6   Silences an enemy
Ice     30  Potent Frost Damage on enemy party
IceX    48  Devastating Frost Damage on single enemy
Idle    5   Slows an enemy down
Lk-Up   6   Increases Luck for one character
Lstorm  11  Medium Shock Damage on enemy party
Nova    42  Potent Burst Damage on enemy party
NovaX   54  Devastating Burst Damage on single enemy
Para    10  Stops time for a single enemy
Renew   10  Revives a dead character
Rub     20  Instantly kills an enemy
Sap     1   Drains small amounts of HP from one enemy
Shield  8   Increases resistance for one character
Spark   4   Weak Shock Damage on single enemy
Warp    2   Teleports you to any previously visited town
Zom1    5   Powerful Damage on an undead enemy
Zom2    15  Potent Damage on an undead enemy

*NOTE*: Damage dealt by spells may vary depending on enemy resistance to magic.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

9. DRAGON SHRINES

Dragon Shrines are places where the Hero can battle dragons to gain spells.

LOCATION              FIGHT    REWARD
========              =====    ======

South of Tuntar       Talon    Snow, Flame and Thunder Dragon spells
Southwest of Gant     Bain     Ice, Fire, Bolt and Gold Dragon spells
Northwest of Gust     Avian    Rudra spell
Under mystic water    None     Agni spell

---------------------------------------------------------------------

10. GOBI'S SHOP

This is a list of the items you can get when Gobi plays merchant in Prima and 
Tunlan. 

ITEM NAME       OFFER
=========       =====

AngleAR         18000
Antd x9         80
B-Stn           12
Cure x9         2700
Cure2           1950
EvilRB          5994
F-Stn           12
G-Tiara         12000
HuntGL          2700
LightRP         48
Mackrl          60
MaskSH          12000
MetalAR         5400
ProtnB          180
Rod2            1200
Sleeper         2400
Smoke           60
SteelBW         2400
Tuna            1200

---------------------------------------------------------------------

11. KARN'S FORMS

-Shin-
A mixture of Karn, Gobi and Bo. He can fire arrows and walk through forest in 
the global map. Found in Gant in a secret passage behind a moving cabinet.

-Debo-
Found in Gust by moving a crate in flute player's house.

-Doof-
A mixture of Karn, Bo and Ox. Stronger than Ox, he can move objects that Ox 
can't. Found by digging with Mogu in the mark northeast of Camlon.

-Puka-
A combination of Karn, Gobi, Ox and Bo. He can breath to open the dragon marked 
stone doors. Found in Bleak by moving the cabinet with Doof leading the party in 
one of the houses.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

12. ROD5 SITES

These are sites where you can use the Rod5 item along with some kind of bait and 
receive important items.

Well - Far west of Agua and east of third Dragon Shrine
You'll receive the DragonSD needed to enter the second Dragon Shrine

Well - Northwest of Tantar
You'll receive the Slab

Pond - Western pond with ducks in Spring
You'll receive the DragonAR

Well - West of Gust. You'll have to fly to reach it
Receive the DragonSH

Well - Southwest of Arad
You'll find the DragonHT

---------------------------------------------------------------------

13. DRAGON MARKS

These are sites where Mogu can dig to find secret treasure.

LOCATION                   REWARD
========                   ======

Northeast of Camlon        Karn's Doof spell
Far northeast of Tantar    L-Ptn, A-Ptn, V-Ptn, Clog
Island north of Winlan     V-Ptn, S-Ptn, Sash
South of Spring            HeroBW
South of Scande            LoveHT, StarSH, AgileHT, Life2, L-Ptn, A-Ptn, S-Ptn,
                           MystCW

---------------------------------------------------------------------

14. DRAGON STONE DOORS

These are sites where Karn in his Puka form can open doors to find powerful 
bracelets.

LOCATION                          REWARD
========                          ======

North of Auria                    DarkBR
Southwest of Gust                 LoveBR
Southwest of Tunlan               WindBR

---------------------------------------------------------------------

15. GENERAL HINTS

1) Search all the drawers you come across. They generally have useful items in 
them. Search also any moving object such as pots, boxes and others. They can 
also hide items.
2) When traveling underwater, use Gobi as the lead character and morph him into 
a big fish (only after you recover the Sphere). This way you won't be attacked.
3) To find the Tri-Rang, search behind the Pagoda Towers before they are 
activated.
4) You can refill the WtrJr in Tunlan or in the mystic spring.
5) Check the throne after defeating Jade to find the Emperor Sword. Also check 
the right pillar to find the Star Hammer. Use it as an item to produce the Comet 
effect.
